Breakfast Club Community Service Project 


The Breakfast Program plays an important role within our community ensuring that everyone has access to a healthy breakfast. At Dartmouth South, the Breakfast Program is looking for students who are serious about making a positive impact on their community and who are looking to gain some leadership experience and community service hours. Interested in taking part in the Health Project? See the details below.








I Can
	Follow these “I Can” statements to ensure that you successfully complete this project:


I can assist with the Breakfast Program during the designated time periods 


I can complete the community service hours log sheet


I can complete reflections after taking part in a skills class or running a hot breakfast 
	





Breakfast Program Needs
	We are looking for students to volunteer during one lunch a week and for their designated ILB period. Students will be taking part in the following:


* Helping to package and prepare for future breakfasts 
* Learning skills to help with preparing for hot breakfasts
* Helping to raise awareness for the Breakfast Program 
	Community Service Hours Log Sheet
	

Each week make sure you sign in to the Breakfast Club sign-in sheet. This sheet will be used to calculate the total hours you have  
	





Reflection
	After taking part in any kind of skills class or preparing and helping to run a hot breakfast you will be asked to complete a reflection about that experience. Here are some things to keep in mind when writing your reflection:


* How do you think things went?
* What do you think went well? 
* What do you think did not go well?
* What would you do differently next time?                
	

Outcomes 
	Learners will implement an advocacy action in response to an issue. 


Learners will learn how life skills influence physical, mental, emotional, social and spiritual health


Students who complete over 15 hours of community services and the other components of this project will receive a reference letter at the end of the project stating their role and the hours they complete with the club.