Caring Buddies Project


This assignment is an opportunity for our older students to develop and display their leadership skills while setting a positive example for our younger students here at school. For this assignment, you will be tasked with coming up with an activity, presentation, or any other idea that is approved by your teacher and lead one of our younger classes through it. Follow the details below to complete this assignment.














I Can 
Statements
	To complete this assignment please follow the “I can” statements listed below:


I can complete a project proposal and have it approved by my teacher


I can complete one observation of the class I have selected for this project


I can document and reflect on my progress throughout this assignment in my Blueprint Portfolio


I can create or prepare the resources needed for my assignment




	



Project Proposal


PROPOSAL FORM HERE
	   Before you can get started on this project it is important to think about and plan what you want to do. Spend some time brainstorming and thinking about potential ideas you would be interested in taking on for this assignment. When you have an idea you are interested in completing the project proposal. This will act as your basic plan and overview of what you are trying to 
	

My Blueprint Portfolio


How To Video
	     As you work your way through this assignment you will be expected to document your progress by completing the reflections below. You can cut and paste the questions into your portfolio and answer them by typing in your response or using the recording options. Be sure to attach any resources that relate back to your portfolio. The questions are located on page two.
	

Outcomes
	Learners will formulate responses to change in Canadian Society.
Learners will implement an advocacy action in response to an issue.
Competencies: Creativity, Communication, Creativity and Innovation, Personnel Career Development, Technological Fluency
	

My Blueprint Portfolio Reflection Questions


Click on the link here if you need a refresher on how to create a portfolio on My Blueprint. Follow the instructions below to create your portfolio and your reflections. All of your four reflections should be in your Blueprint portfolio.


Creating Your Portfolio
	

Name 
	The name of your My Blueprint Portfolio should be:


Bucci’s Buddies Project
	

Description
	You can type this in yourself or cut and paste it in:


This is my project portfolio for Mr. Bucci’s Buddie’s Project. Here you will find my 4 different reflections.
	 
Creating Your Reflections:
	Reflection 
	 Title and Description 
	Questions
	





Project Proposal
	Title: 
Project Proposal Reflection Questions


Description:
Cut and paste the reflection questions then hit “Post” in the top right corner. Click on add reflection and then type or record your response. 
	-How will your project have a positive impact on you and the class that takes part in it?


-Do you prefer working independently or with a partner or small group? Explain why.


-If you had to pick a potential career you could see yourself being interested in right now. Which one would you pick and why?
	



Activity Log
	Title: 
Activity Log


Description:
Cut and paste this into the information in the question section
	

Provide a brief description of what you worked on for this project during your time in class. 
	





Class Observation
	Title: 
Class Observation Reflection 


Description:
Cut and paste the reflection questions then hit “Post” in the top right corner. Click on add reflection and then type or record your response. 
	-What are three observations that stood out to you from watching the class you selected?


-How did your observation match up with your expectations of the group when you selected them?


-What is one thing you learned from this observation that will help you with your project?
	



Project Presentation Reflection 
	Title: 
Class Observation Reflection 


Description:
Cut and paste the reflection questions then hit “Post” in the top right corner. Click on add reflection and then type or record your response. 
	-What did you think went well about your project presentation? 


-Is there anything you could have improved on or would change if you had to do it over again?


-What did you learn about yourself from this project and process?