Interests Assignment


For this assignment, we will be working on becoming more comfortable using Google Slides. To complete this assignment, you must create a Google slide show that reflects your interests. Follow the instructions in the chart below to complete this assignment.










I Can
	To complete this assignment please follow the “I can” statements listed below:


* I can create a Google Slideshow that showcases my interests
* I can include all of the required information
* I can write one or two sentences about why I selected the interest I selected
* I can submit it to our Google Classroom when it is complete
	







Required Information
	When completing this assignment in google slides please make sure you include the following:


* Title Slide
   * Title of the assignment and your name on it.
* 5 Interest slides
   * 5 things you are interested in
   * Each slide should include:
      * Interest is clearly stated at the top of the slide
      * A picture or video relating to your interest
      * One to two sentences about the good you selected
* Reflection Slide
   * Answer this question: What are some factors that influence your interests?
   * If you are doing this with a partner:
      * What are some interests that you both have in common?


NOTE:
If you were a student of mine from last year and completed this project I still want you to complete it this year. Here are some things to help you complete it:
Have any of your interests changed over the years?
What new interests do you have? Or What are you no longer interested in?
If there has been lots of change in your interests you can compare the changes.
	

Outcomes
	Analyze ways in which peers, media, and social norms influence healthy decision-making.


Competencies: Digital Fluency, Critical Thinking, Creativity
	







Interests Assignment Rubric


Criteria
	4 - Excellent
	3 - Good
	2 - Developing
	1 - Beginning
	

Google Slideshow Creation
	Created a complete slideshow with all required slides and smooth transitions
	Created a slideshow with most required slides and some transitions
	Created a basic slideshow with some required slides
	Created an incomplete slideshow with few required slides
	

Required Information
	Included all required information with extra details
	Included all required information
	Included most required information
	Included some required information
	

Interest Descriptions
	Wrote clear, detailed sentences about each interest
	Wrote complete sentences about each interest
	Wrote basic sentences about most interests
	Wrote incomplete sentences about some interests
	

Visual Elements
	Included high-quality, relevant pictures or videos for all interests
	Included relevant pictures or videos for most interests
	Included some pictures or videos, not all relevant
	Included few or no pictures or videos
	Reflection
	Provided thoughtful answers to reflection questions with examples
	Provided complete answers to reflection questions
	Provided basic answers to reflection questions
	Provided incomplete or unclear answers to reflection questions
	

Submission
	Submitted on time to Google Classroom with correct formatting
	Submitted on time to Google Classroom with minor formatting issues
	Submitted late to Google Classroom or with major formatting issues
	Did not submit to Google Classroom