Unit Overview:


    This unit is all about getting to know the students, having them think about how they want the year to look like and play out. There are a series of activities that students will work their way through and decide what they are interested in completing. Students will also learn how to set up their My Blueprint portfolio. All resources can be found on the unit website:
UNIT LINK


Learning Outcomes
	Forms of Assessment
	Learners will formulate responses to change in Canadian Society. (SS8)


Learners will create responses to challenges and opportunities in present day Atlantic Canadian Communities. (SS7)


Learners will reflect on the importance of mental health literacy. (HL 7)




Competencies:
	Technological Fluency
	Citizenship
	Creativity and Innovation
	

	

Online Quizzes:
-Quizzes are all set up through Google Forms and come directly to me 
-A mix of short answer, long answer, multiple-choice, true or false,  and fill in the blank
-PLEASE NOTE: Short and Long answers in some cases will be marked wrong until I can review them.


Project-Based:
-Students will have a choice between  a variety of different projects 
-Students will be encouraged to take control of how they want to demonstrate their learning
-Students will have access to teacher recordings, notes, and helpful resources to complete projects
	Unit Resources:
This unit will come with a variety of resources to help students complete assignments and quizzes, each module with have some combination of the following to help with the completion of that module:


* Quizzes on Google Forms that will automatically come to the teacher upon completion.
* Brief video explanations on some of the activities, projects as well as other helpful tips
* Mobile friendly, as assignment QR codes, can be scanned to be completed on a mobile device
	

	 Module
	Description
	Assessment Options
	



My Interests




	Interests Assignment:


In this module students will be working on their Google Slides skills by creating a slideshow about their interests.
	



Interests Assignment
	



My Resume




	My Resume:


Students create their own resumes and look at the strengths and weaknesses.
	

My Resume Assignment
	

My Blueprint Portfolio


	My Blueprint Portfolio:
Students will learn how to set up and complete their My Blueprint portfolio.
	

My Blueprint Assignment Explanation


	

My School Club Proposal


	My School Club Proposal:


Students come up with an idea for a potential school club and create a presentation on it.
	

My School Club Assignment
	

DSA Student Council


	DSA Student Council:


Students can find out more about what our school student council would look like and how to apply if interested.


	

Module Link
	DSA Mapping Challenge 


	DSA Mapping Challenge:


This module students will be tasked with creating their own map of Dartmouth South Academy. They will also need to complete a short reflection activity.
	

Pre Activity Reflection




DSA Mapping Assignment


	Question
	Questioning ICA:


Students are introduced to what goes into making a good question and complete an ICA on questioning.
	



Questioning Module