Alcohol Dependent




You feel like you require alcohol to function. You may show signs of withdrawal if you don’t drink.
Regularly Trashed




You drink to get drunk most weekends and/or through the week.
Regular Drinker




You have at least one drink on most days, but you rarely have more than a few at a time and never trashed.
Weekend Drinker




You’ll have a few drinks on the weekend, but you rarely get drunk.
Social Drinker






You’ll have a drink on special occasions, no more than a handful of times per year.
Non-Drinker








You don’t drink.
injuries










other
drug use








the hangover










STIs










brain development problems






unplanned pregnancy








gf or bf
violence








prenatal
probs








losing interest in stuff








isolation










alcohol
poisoning








violence










Child
Porn
________________


effed up relationship








down in the dumps








disease










I'm hooked










self harm










work & school








other










unprotected
sex








you’re
under arrest








sexual
assault








It’s all over the internet








You pissed in my flower pot?






Injuries – alcohol increases the chances of injury. Many drownings, car crashes and falls happen when alcohol is involved.




Other drug use – regular use of alcohol increases the chances of experimentation of other drugs




The hangover – the headache, nausea and fatigue that a person feels after being drunk




STIs – alcohol use increases the chances of sexually active people getting sexually transmitted infections because people are less likely to use or ask for safer sex


Brain development problems – regular drinking among children and younger youth can impact brain development


Unplanned pregnancy – like the STIs example, alcohol can increase the chances of an unplanned pregnancy


gf or bf violence – when alcohol is part of an intimate relationship (girl/guy, guy/guy or girl/girl) there is an increased risk of violence in the relationship


Prenatal probs – when a woman drinks during pregnancy there is an increased chance of the baby being born with a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder…it’s like a type of brain injury


Losing interest in stuff –youth who start to drink often lose interest in things they love….sports…music, etc.


Isolation – sometimes youth become more withdrawn if alcohol becomes a regular part of their life


Alcohol poisoning – when someone drinks too much the alcohol can poison the body (throwing up and passing out). In severe cases the person can die.


Violence – alcohol is often a factor in violent acts


Child Porn – there are cases of children and youth taking pictures of videos of themselves naked while they’re drunk and sending them to friends…that’s child pornography. If a person passes along the image or video it’s also child porn


Effed up relationships – there is often more drama among friends and family when alcohol is being used


Down in the dumps – alcohol is a depressant. A person may feel happy while impaired, but often feels sad when sober


Disease – years of drinking can increase the chances of a serious chronic disease, like heart disease and some forms of cancer


I'm hooked – regular drinking increases the chances of developing an addiction


Self harm – many cases of suicide and attempted suicide happen when alcohol is involved
Work & school – regular drinking can sometimes impact performance in school and at work


Unprotected
sex – like STIs and unplanned pregnancy, drinking can increase the chances of unprotected sex


You’re under arrest – many crimes are committed when someone is impaired by alcohol


Sexual assault – alcohol is very often a factor in sexual assaults


It’s all over Facebook – it’s common for pictures and videos of drunk youth to be posted on Facebook which sometimes leads to regret


You pissed in my flower pot? – vandalism and public mischief often increases when alcohol is involved