Advertising and Marketing of Vaping Products


This lesson can be used beginning in grade 6, and will be meaningful in higher grade levels. It has two components. First it is a lesson for teachers who may know little about vaping and their products. It is recommended that teachers engage in this lesson on their own first. It is important that teachers send messaging to students that vaping is not harmless as advertisers and marketers would like you to believe. Do not start vaping. If you have started vaping, ask for help to stop. It is not easy to stop, despite what you might be led to believe.


Note: There are two versions of this lesson in the folders.


 
Background Information
Tobacco rates among youth have declined over the past twenty years.  This has been due to a variety of policies and legislation at the provincial and federal level. When the parents and grandparents of today’s youth grew up,  tobacco use was not only normalized in everyday life, but also on television, and in the movies. As more regulations were put on tobacco in the last thirty or so years, the social norms around tobacco use have contributed to its decline in use among youth and adults.


However there is concern that this may change with the vaping rates we are seeing among youth in Canada, and in Nova Scotia.


Vaping was introduced into the Canadian market around 2007, marketed as a quit aid for adult smokers. It lacked the same regulation as tobacco products, which has opened the door for industry to bring in high nicotine vaping products alongside advertising (via some media channels) promoting misconceptions that vaping products are less harmful than cigarette smoking.


Vaping devices come in sleek high-tech designs that appeal to youth because of their novel, cool and harmless appearance. Vaping products come in a variety of attractive flavours and the majority contain nicotine. Furthermore, the use of these products is being widely shared via social media. Most concerning are the new types of vaping products on the market, like pods and salts, that contain very high levels of nicotine. A single nicotine pod can expose a user to the same amount of nicotine as an entire pack of cigarettes.
 
It is important to keep in mind that while most youth are not vaping, we are seeing an alarming number of non-smoking youth vaping in Canada. This trend is very troubling, especially because of what we know about nicotine.










Nicotine is highly addictive and can have harmful impacts on the brain, affecting memory and concentration in everyone and brain development in youth and young adults. It alters parts of the brain that control attention, learning, mood and impulse control. Early exposure to nicotine in adolescence may increase the severity of future dependence to nicotine and tobacco. 


While Health Canada has been working over the course of the year to tighten regulations  on vaping/vaping products, youth in Canada/Nova Scotia are seeing images and promotion of vaping and vaping products via social media settings.




What is vaping?


Vaping involves using a device called an e-cigarette to aerosolize and inhale a liquid solution.


All e-cigarettes have common components that include a battery, heating coil, atomizer that transforms the vape liquid into an aerosol, a cartridge that contains the vape liquid, and mouthpiece.


While the activity is usually referred to as vaping, the e-cigarette device used to vape has many common names including mods, vape pens, e-cigs, mod pods, JUULs, vape sticks, as well as other names that continue to emerge.




Consider the following advertisements and/or images and use the questions below to hold space for conversation (as you analyze the advertisements and/or images, record any other questions that might come up during your conversation about vaping and adolescent use):


















Advertisement Exploration

Guiding Question: How do advertisements sell products?


1. Document the key points of your discussion here, and provide the evidence you gather for your discussion.
                     Main ideas                                        Evidence










































	

	Here are some key words to think about if needed during your discussion:
Tactics                Claims                Feelings        Messages        Lifestyle        Influence/influencers            

      2)   Put a  *  beside the evidence collected that you feel is valid. 
How can you tell if information in an advertisement is valid?