World War 2 Case Study


At the end of each unit, you are going to be expected to review a case study that relates back to what we just looked at. Use the information in the guide below to complete your case study and then submit your completed case study to our Google Classroom.




STUDENT COPY OF SOURCE
	









I Can Statements
	Follow the “I can” statements below to ensure that you complete this assignment:


I can complete the graphic organizer based on the source provided


I can answer the case study inquiry question based on information from the sources provided and my own research


I can find one additional source of information on the topic.


I can present my findings on the case study in a clear and creative way and submit my final product to our classroom
	Graphic Organizer
	Complete the graphic organizer in as much detail as possible. This will help provide you with some of the basic knowledge to try and answer the inquiry question. You can use the organizer as a place to keep notes and then use that information when you create your final presentation to answer the inquiry question.
	Presentation
	When presenting your findings on the inquiry question there are a number of different ways you could go about it.


* Poster or Art Work 
* Class Presentation
* Google Slides / Canva
* Digital Model on CoSpaces, Minecraft, or Scratch
* We Video Projects (Movies, podcasts, GIFS, Animation)
	



Social Studies Case Study Graphic Organizer


Complete the graphic organizer below based on the unit case studies. Be sure to include as much information as possible and click on the links to find helpful information. You will need to use this information to present your findings and submit them to our classroom


Case Study Key Information:


Case Study Topic:


	Inquiry Question:


	

	Key Words
What are some keywords you identified from the reading and the sources?
	Case Study Big Ideas
Using jot notes record some of the big ideas you took away from the case study introduction at the beginning:


















	Summarizing The Sources:
Write a paragraph on the main ideas that you took away from the sources on the case study. Be sure to keep in mind these tips when writing your summary.












	Inquiry Questions 
Come up with three questions you have based on the reading. What sources could you use to find the information on your questions?