World War II 5 Paragraph Essay


For this assignment we are going to be working on writing and developing a five paragraph essay. Follow the steps laid out here to complete this assignment. 










I Can 




	Follow the “I can” statements below to help complete this assignment


I can identify a topic from our World War 2 unit that I am interested in and want to explore more.


I can find information on the topic I have selected using primary or secondary sources.


I can research the topic of my choice and present it in an essay, complete with an introductory paragraph, a body, and a closing statement, using a 5 paragraph structure.  


I can compete the steps laid out in this assignment and turn in my work to the google classroom


	













Step 1:


Brainstorming 
And
Picking a Topic






Required Resource


	The first step for this assignment is brainstorming and deciding on a topic 
Battle of France
	D Day Landings
	Battle of Stalingrad
	Battle of Britain
	Italian Campaign 
	The Canadian Experience
	Pearl Harbour 
	The Pacific Front
	Canada and the Homefront
	If you have a family member who took part in World War 1 or 2 I would be open to letting you research and try to tell their story. For more information on this or any topic not included please let me know and we can discuss more.
	

* I can select three different essay topics I would consider picking for a topic
* I can provide 3 different facts about each of the topics 
* I can use 2 to 3 different sources for each topic
* I can pick one of the three topics to write my essay on


	Step 2: Researching and Writing your Draft






Copy of Graphic Organizer
	Now that you have completed step one and selected a topic it is time to start researching and writing your draft. Use the I Can Statements below to help you complete this step.


* I can complete my research in the graphic organizer 
* I can complete my rough draft within the graphic organizer
* I can turn in my graphic organizer to our google classroom
* I can use primary and secondary sources in my research                         
	Step 3:
Good Copy and Editing 
	The final step will be taking the draft of your essay and getting it ready to turn in. Follow these I can statements to complete this step:


* I can put my rough draft into a google document and make any edits that need to be done
* I can ensure that I have tried my best to use proper grammar and punctuation
* I can turn it into our google classroom when I am done


	Outcomes
	Learners will reflect on the impact that World War 2 had on a changing Canadian society.