Appendix  
Step into the circle……………………….. …………...….…  Expectations of Femininity………………………………….  Angels and Demons………………………………………….. Help-seeking behavior ……………………………………..  Drug Land …………………………………………………….  
Marijuana ……………………………………………………..  Relationships ………………………………………………… Healthy Sexuality 
Shrinking Women ………………………………………….…  Online & Offline …………………………………………….… Gender and Sexuality……………………………………….  Privilege…………………………………….. …………...….…  Popularity ……………………………………………………..  Consent 
Myself and My Shell…………………………………………… Pornography 
STIs …………………………………………………………….  The Sex Game ……………………………………………….. Mood …………….……………………………………………... Mindfulness ……………………………………………………. 
Super Powers …………………………………………………. Healthy Sexuality………………………………………………. Closing ……………………………………………………….…
Step into the circle if… 
Light 
• you have brothers or sisters 
• you are active in sports 
• you’re good at those sports 
• you play video games 
• you like music 
• you’ve thrown up on someone as a teen or adult 
• you’ve ever had a conversation with a pet 
• you’ve dreamed about flying 
• you’ve dreamed about falling 
• you like to walk in the rain 
• you’ve farted in public 
• you ate fast food in the last week 
• you did something good for your mental or physical health last weekend • you’ve broken a bone 
• you have a scar 
• you’re looking forward to getting your driver’s license 
• you help care for someone 
• you think summer is the best season 
• you are ticklish 
• you’ve ever spied on anyone 
• you like your laugh
2 
Step into the circle if… 
Medium 
• you have ever felt awkward or out of place 
• you are a risk taker 
• you’ve ever shoplifted 
• you’ve told a parent/guardian you were going somewhere and went  somewhere else 
• you check out your poop before flushing (if it floats it is a good sign of proper  fibre intake!) 
• you check your urine to see if it is clear or pale yellow (a good sign of proper  hydration!) 
• your parents are separated/divorced/unmarried 
• you think guys your age are having a tough time in our society • you feel comfortable talking about sex to your family 
• you feel comfortable telling a parent/guardian about personal problems • you feel weird or self-conscious right now 
• you feel uncomfortable around this group 
• you think schools could do a better job 
• you are nervous about high school 
• you are excited about high school 
• you’ve gotten so angry you hit another person 
• you have started a rumor 
• you’re worried about someone in your life 
• you think you’ll ever be powerful 
• you think you’re a role model 
• you treat people the way you want them to treat you
3 
• you want to change something about your personality 
Step into the circle if… 
Deeper 
• you have cried about something, for any reason, in the past year • you are in a relationship 
• you’ve thought about or used birth control  
• you’re comfortable hugging someone of the same gender • you are happy most of the time 
• you have been bullied 
• you have bullied someone 
• you have had sex while drunk 
• you sometimes call things/people you don’t like “gay” 
• you have ever stood up for someone against something unfair • you wish you were closer with a parent/guardian 
• your life is going pretty much how you want it to go 
• you think you’re in control of who you are as a woman 
• you believe you can help a friend become healthier 
• you think you’re trying to live up to someone else’s reputation • you think you’re trying to live up to something a family member wants for  you 
• you’ve ever influenced someone to use alcohol or drugs 
• you’re worried about your future 
• you think you’ll be a good mothers 
• you think the world will be better in the future 
• you think you can change the world
4 
Let the other  
person take  
control in a  
relationship 
Be attractive and  take/post/send  sexy pictures.
5 
Be concerned  with how much I  eat, and who I eat  in front of. 
Be quiet, don't  speak up in class
6 
Have a thin body,  big breasts and a  big booty. 
Whoever you are,  you are not good  enough.
7 
It is important to  attract and be  flirtatious (be  noticed by  
certain people). 
You should  
always want sex.
8 
Prove yourself in  sports and  
school. Do  
everything and  do it the best.  
Shopping and  being in style is  important.
9 
Angels and Demons 
A large oceanfront cottage one hour from downtown Halifax is going to be the  site of an anti-grad party the Sunday after prom. 
About a hundred people are planning on coming, and most have prepared  stories for parents. There are more people going than there are seats in cars, so  many cars will be overloaded, and it’s known that a few cars will be taking teens  in the trunk for the hour-long trip.  
The property has a wharf and shed with two kayaks, two canoes, two jet skis and  an oil drum full of inflatable tubes and water toys. There’s also a plastic crate full  of fireworks.  
Everyone is supposed to bring sleeping bags, and a bunch of tents are being  rounded up. No one has organized food. Everyone is just bringing whatever they  might want to cook on barbecues or snack on through the night. The two hosts  have a new drinking game planned that they found on YouTube.  
There’s already talk about who wants to hook up with who before the summer  starts and people go their separate ways after high school.  
There’s a swimming pool and a seven-person Jacuzzi, with a large trampoline a  few metres away. The shoreline has a wharf, but the closest beach is a sandy  cove a five-minute boat ride away 
A local DJ named FEEDING FRENZY who works weekends spinning at illegal  after-hours parties has agreed to work the night for one of the guys who is  graduating and co-hosting the event. The DJ gets to bring friends and use the  cottage for a couple days after, as well as payment in steaks, beer, vodka and  weed.  
One of the friends tagging along will be Goldilocks – a popular drug dealer in  Halifax. He’ll have an assortment of drugs to sell or give away for free - depending on his mood and motives. Another friend of the DJ is bringing an HD  video camera and is hoping to get some of the same kind of sketchy footage he  taped during an off-campus party last winter. 
10 
SMALL 
MEDIUM LARGE
11 
I cut my finger.  It’s bleeding. 
I cut my finger  off. The stump is  bleeding.
12 
Something bit my  finger and now  my hand is  
swelling up. 
13 
I get so stressed before  tests that I want to throw  up.  
It sometimes takes me  hours to fall asleep at  night.  
I’m so stressed that I can’t  do anything, it’s like I’m  frozen. 
14 
I was feeling sad  yesterday.  
I felt sad all  
weekend.  
I’ve been sad for  the past two  weeks. 
15 
I’m pretty much  sad all the time.  
I had trouble  getting an  
erection last  night.
16 
I’m having  
regular trouble  getting an  
erection. 
I have an erection  all the time. 
17 
Sometimes I have  fights with family  and friends.  
I regularly have  fights with family  and friends. 
18 
I’m always  fighting with  family and  friends. 
19 
I started smoking  a little weed once  in a while.  
I’m smoking  
weed most  
weekends. 
20 
I’m smoking  
weed every day. I can’t get  
through the day  without smoking  weed. 
21 
I’ve started to  drink a little bit.  I’m getting  
smashed every  weekend now. I’m drinking  
every day. 
22 
Sometimes I look in the mirror and  think I need to  get in better  
shape. 
23 
Every day I look  at my body and  think it’s not  
where I want it to  be.
24 
I can’t look at  myself in the  mirror anymore,  I’m so disgusted  with my body. 
25 
I’m depressed 
I’m being bullied 
I’m having a problem with  my girlfriend or boyfriend I think I have a sexually  transmitted infection
26 
I don't have a  
problem (but  
everyone else knows  you do – you’re in  denial).
27 
I don't know that I  have a problem (No  denial…they really  don’t know). 
I think I have a  
problem, but I don't  want to tell anyone.
28 
I think I have a  
problem, but I don't  know who to talk to. 
I have a problem, I  know who to go see,  but I don't know  how to talk about it.
29 
I have a problem, I  know who to go, but  no one’s going to  listen or understand. 
I have too many  problems and no  one will ever be able  to help.
30 
I have a problem,  but I can help  
myself. 
I have a problem and  I'd seek help, but  only if no one will  know.
31 
I have a problem,  and I am willing to  ask for help.  
Parent 
Family  
Member
32 
Friend Family  Doctor
33 
Youth  Health  Centre
34 
Teacher or  Guidance  Counselor
35 
Coach or  Other  
Trusted  Adult
36 
Help-line  (811) 
Walk-In Clinic
37 
Other 
Alcohol  
Dependent 
You feel like you require  alcohol to function. You may  show signs of withdrawal if  you don’t drink.
38 
Regularly  
Trashed 
You drink to get drunk most  weekends and/or through  the week. 
Regular  
Drinker 
You have at least one drink  on most days, but you rarely  have more than a few at a  time and never trashed.
39 
Weekend  
Drinker 
You’ll have a few drinks on  the weekend, but you rarely  get drunk. 
Social Drinker You’ll have a drink on special  occasions, no more than a  handful of times per year.
40 
Non-Drinker You don’t drink. 
Occasionally  Trashed 
You drink to get drunk once  in a while.
41 
injuries
42 
other 
drug use 
the hangover
43 
brain  
development  problems 
unplanned  pregnancy
44 
gf or bf violence prenatal problems
45 
alcohol 
poisoning violence
46 
Child 
Porn 
effed up  
relationships
47 
down in the  dumps 
I'm hooked self harm
48 
work &  school
49 
car  
accidents unprotected sex 
you’re
50 
under arrest sexual 
assault 
It’s all over  social media
51 
You pissed  in my flower  pot?
52 
Injuries – alcohol increases the chances of injury. Many drownings, car crashes and falls  happen when alcohol is involved. 
Other drug use – regular use of alcohol increases the chances of experimentation of other  drugs 
The hangover – the headache, nausea and fatigue that a person feels after being drunk 
STIs – alcohol use increases the chances of sexually active people getting sexually  transmitted infections because people are less likely to use or ask for safer sex 
Brain development problems – regular drinking among children and younger youth can  impact brain development 
Unplanned pregnancy – like the STIs example, alcohol can increase the chances of an  unplanned pregnancy 
gf or bf violence – when alcohol is part of an intimate relationship (girl/guy, guy/guy or  girl/girl) there is an increased risk of violence in the relationship 
Prenatal problems – when a woman drinks during pregnancy there is an increased chance of  the baby being born with a fetal alcohol spectrum disorder…it’s like a type of brain injury 
Losing interest in stuff –youth who start to drink often lose interest in things they  love….sports…music, etc. 
Isolation – sometimes youth become more withdrawn if alcohol becomes a regular part of  their life 
Alcohol poisoning – when someone drinks too much the alcohol can poison the body  (throwing up and passing out). In severe cases the person can die. 
Violence – alcohol is often a factor in violent acts 
Child Porn – there are cases of children and youth taking pictures of videos of themselves  naked while they’re drunk and sending them to friends…that’s child pornography. If a  person passes along the image or video it’s also child porn 
Effed up relationships – there is often more drama among friends and family when alcohol is  being used 
Down in the dumps – alcohol is a depressant. A person may feel happy while impaired, but  often feels sad when sober 
Disease – years of drinking can increase the chances of a serious chronic disease, like heart  disease and some forms of cancer 
I'm hooked – regular drinking increases the chances of developing an addiction Self harm – many cases of suicide and attempted suicide happen when alcohol is involved
53 
Work & school – regular drinking can sometimes impact performance in school and at work 
Unprotected 
sex – like STIs and unplanned pregnancy, drinking can increase the chances of unprotected  sex 
You’re under arrest – many crimes are committed when someone is impaired by alcohol Sexual assault – alcohol is very often a factor in sexual assaults 
It’s all over Facebook – it’s common for pictures and videos of drunk youth to be posted on  Facebook which sometimes leads to regret 
You pissed in my flower pot? – vandalism and public mischief often increases when alcohol  is involved 
Alcohol Marketing 
ADBEERTISING – Beer ads are everywhere. Sometimes it can feel like they’re the only  thing on during a commercial break. 
ALCOHOL ANDAPPLES – What is an apple? Healthy. Some drinks are marketed as  natural, wholesome and good for you. 
IN THE FAMILY – What more bonding moment could there be in movies or on TV than a  dad giving his son a beer for the first time while they work on a car? Or a mom pouring her  heart out to her daughter over a glass of wine? Careful not to think of alcohol as necessary  to a family gathering just because it is marketed that way. 
ROCKSTAR ULTIMATE NEON-COLORED LO-CALGRAPE INFUSED VODKA SQUISHY – All  these words are so exciting! It sounds like such a good time! 
IT’S TUESDAY… LET’S DRINK! – Tuesday is cheap, Wednesday is trivia, Thursday and  it’s almost the weekend, Friday and it is, Saturday is the main drinking night, Sunday is  Sundayfunday! There is a reason every day! 
I AM SO BORED – It’s something to do. What ELSE would you be doing anyway? 
YOU DON’T WANT TO DRINK WITH US?! – Well you must not be our friend if you don’t  want to drink with us. 
POP CULTURE – Celebrity endorsements and stars with their own alcohol brands. FML – Drinking to make you feel better when you’re down. Self-medicating.
54 
LIFE IS GOOD. NO.BETTER! – Drink when things are good too though. It will make a great  day better! 
NEW YEARS EVE!!ST. PATRICK’S DAY!! CANADA DAY!! HALLOWEEN!! – Holidays all  seem to be reasons to drink, if you pay attention to the media. 
ORGASM – Often alcohol is related to sex, but what message does that give us around  consent?
55 
ADBEERTISING 
ALCOHOL  
AND 
APPLES 
56 
CHUG 
CHUG 
IN THE FAMILY
57 
ROCKSTAR  
ULTIMATE NEON COLORED LO-CAL GRAPE INFUSED VODKA SQUISHY 
IT’S TUESDAY…  LET’S DRINK!  I AM SO BORED
58 
YOU DON’T WANT TO  DRINK WITH  US?! 
POP 
CULTURE
59 
FML 
NEW YEARS  EVE!! 
ST. PATRICK’S  DAY!! 
CANADA DAY!!  HALLOWEEN!!
60 
LIFE IS GOOD.  NO.  
BETTER! 
ORGASM
61 
Non-smoker (Never smoked or  smoked but  
stopped)
62 
Occasional  smoker 
(the odd puff now  and then, but  
essentially a non smoker)
63 
Weekend  
smoker 
(Will puff now  and then, but it's  only a weekend  
thing and not every  weekend)
64 
Regular  
smoker 
(routinely have a  puff after work or  school ends)
65 
Pot Head  
(Getting really  baked most days,  need a high to have  real fun)
66 
Stoned 24/7 (All day, every  day. Morning,  noon and night)
67 
Someone passed me a  joint, I can’t say no in  front of everyone 
(Peer Pressure) 
Justin Bieber and Snoop  get high, and it seems  pretty harmless  
(Pop culture)
68 
There are smoke shops  all over. I am always  around people who  smoke  
(Social Norm) 
Authority and my  parents don’t like it, so  I do  
(Rebel)
69 
It feels good and makes  things so much more  fun (Sensation-seeking) 
All of my friends get  high together and I like  being a part of our  group (Community,  identity) 
When I’m high, I can  escape all of the things 
70 
that are normally on my  mind  
(Self-medicating)
71 
Relationships Scenarios – Part 1 
She starts drinking. You don’t. 
She starts pressuring you to drink.  
You start smoking weed. She doesn’t. 
You start pressuring her to smoke weed.  
You both start relationships. 
She comes out as lesbian or bi or transgender. 
You have a serious family issue and are upset. Your friend knows about it.  You start hanging out with her girlfriend or boyfriend. 
She starts dating your sister or brother.  
One of you pisses the other one off, but you talk it out and everything’s good afterward. You’re in an unhealthy relationship and she takes you aside and tells you that you should  end it. 
You both play hockey. One of you makes the team, and the other doesn’t. You go watch your friend play hockey and cheer her on even though you didn’t make the  team.  
You go to a movie with some friends and don’t bother inviting her. 
You’re heading camping or to a cottage for the weekend with your family and you invite her along. 
You both check in to see how each other is feeing every day. 
You don’t mind telling each other when you’ve done something stupid, or wrong. You tell him when he’s done something that has hurt your feelings. 
She trusts you with a big secret. 
The secret she trusts you with may mean your friend is in danger of hurting herself or  others, so you need to tell someone about it.  
You start a house-painting business together. 
Both of you take the time to listen to each other.  
One of you is really dependable, but the other keeps forgetting the plans that you’ve made.  You tease your friend for the clothes they wear, or the way they look.  You stick up for each other, even though it might cause problems.  
You lie to your friend sometimes so that you won’t hurt her feelings.  
You’ve made fun of your friend in front of other friends. 
You’re not uncomfortable to sometimes tell the other how much their friendship means to  you.  
Both of you are a bit scared of trying something new - like skydiving - but you do it together.  You ask for money once to cover a meal or a movie. It becomes a bit of a habit. You feel  awkward talking about it. 
72 
Relationships Questions – Part 2 
• A) If you’re in a relationship and you made plans with your partner to do something, and  they ask to change plans at the last minute are you cool with that or not cool with that?  B) What if this is something that happens almost all the time? 
• How would you feel if your partner regularly criticizes the way you look or dress, or says  something that makes you feel bad about yourself? 
• Would you be okay with your partner doing their own thing sometimes, and having  some different interests than you, even if it means you spend less time together?  
• A) Would you be okay with your partner talking to other girls/guys/women/men? B) Do  you support them having other friendships, including keeping old friends and making  new friends?  
• How would you feel if you had to hide things from your partner because you fear they’ll  get pissed off at you?  
• Would you be okay if your partner doesn’t always want to have sex?  
• How would you feel if your partner sometimes threatens you, or gets physically angry  with you?  
• Would you be okay to leave a relationship if things were not working out?  
• Would you be supportive of having regular conversations with your partner about how  the relationship is going? 
• Would you want to be able to express your opinion without being made fun of by your  partner? 
• Would you want to have an equal say in what happens in your relationship? 
Relationships Questions and Step-into-the-circle Statements – Part 3 
1. Is there anything that makes you nervous about dating?  
2. Do you think girls are expected to act a certain way or be a certain type of woman in a  relationship?  
3. Lots of girls think it is not okay to hook up with more than one person in high school. Do  you think this feeds the stereotype that girls are damaged goods once they’ve hooked  up with someone? 
4. How comfortable do you feel talking to a friend when they’re in an unhealthy  relationship? Is your opinion in or out of bounds?
73 
5. In an ideal relationship should things be equal, or do you think it is okay that the guy  may be more dominant or powerful? If you think it should be equal is that the reality in  relationships you see? 
6. Who teaches you how to have a healthy relationship?  
• Step into the circle if you think it’s tougher to have a healthy relationship these days.  • Step into the circle if you think junior high school is too early for a serious relationship.  • Step into the circle if you think porn is impacting the health of relationships these days. 
74 
Shrinking Women 
Lily Myers 
Across from me at the kitchen table, my mother smiles over red wine that she drinks out of a measuring  glass. 
She says she doesn't deprive herself, 
but I've learned to find nuance in every movement of her fork. 
In every crinkle in her brow as she offers me the uneaten pieces on her plate. 
I've realized she only eats dinner when I suggest it. 
I wonder what she does when I'm not there to do so. 
Maybe this is why my house feels bigger each time I return; it's proportional. 
As she shrinks the space around her seems increasingly vast. 
She wanes while my father waxes. His stomach has grown round with wine, late nights, oysters, poetry.  A new girlfriend who was overweight as a teenager, but my dad reports that now she's "crazy about  fruit." 
It was the same with his parents; 
as my grandmother became frail and angular her husband swelled to red round cheeks, round stomach, and I wonder if my lineage is one of women shrinking, 
making space for the entrance of men into their lives, 
not knowing how to fill it back up once they leave. 
I have been taught accommodation. 
My brother never thinks before he speaks. 
I have been taught to filter. 
"How can anyone have a relationship to food?" he asks, laughing, as I eat the black bean soup I chose for  its lack of carbs. 
I want to say: we come from difference, Jonas, 
you have been taught to grow out, 
I have been taught to grow in. 
You learned from our father how to emit, how to produce, to roll each thought off your tongue with  confidence, you used to lose your voice every other week from shouting so much. I learned to absorb.
75 
I took lessons from our mother in creating space around myself. 
I learned to read the knots in her forehead while the guys went out for oysters, and I never meant to replicate her, but 
spend enough time sitting across from someone and you pick up their habits 
that's why women in my family have been shrinking for decades. 
We all learned it from each other, the way each generation taught the next how to knit, weaving silence in between the threads 
which I can still feel as I walk through this ever-growing house, 
skin itching, 
picking up all the habits my mother has unwittingly dropped like bits of crumpled paper from her pocket  on her countless trips from bedroom to kitchen to bedroom again. 
Nights I hear her creep down to eat plain yogurt in the dark, a fugitive stealing calories to which she  does not feel entitled. 
Deciding how many bites is too many. 
How much space she deserves to occupy. 
Watching the struggle I either mimic or hate her, 
And I don't want to do either anymore, 
but the burden of this house has followed me across the country. 
I asked five questions in genetics class today and all of them started with the word "sorry." I don't know the requirements for the sociology major because I spent the entire meeting deciding  whether or not I could have another piece of pizza, 
a circular obsession I never wanted, but 
inheritance is accidental, 
still staring at me with wine-soaked lips from across the kitchen table.
76 
Don’t be gay. 
Don’t say 
sorry.
77 
Have limited  affection with  the same sex. 
Be cool around  women.
78 
Be a jock. 
Eat lots. Drink lots.
79 
Like action  
movies, not  
chick flicks. 
Talk loud and be  aggressive.
80