===1. a Inquiry into Murdered and Missing Indigenous Women.pptx===
--- Slide 1 ---
Canada’s Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls
--- Slide 2 ---
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6DLZgG15c-o
--- Slide 3 ---
The child welfare system devalues indigenous life, especially for indigenous women and girls

When the children in the system turn 18, they are on their own
Unequipped with life skills
Severed from their families and home communities

This leads to homelessness, substance abuse, sexual exploitation
What is the connection between the child welfare system and the epidemic of missing and murdered indigenous women?
--- Slide 4 ---
Simply put, Residential Schools. Here’s why... 

Many of the indigenous children placed into the child welfare system are the children of Residential School survivors

Residential schools separated indigenous children from their families
The aim was to “kill the Indian in the child”

At these schools, children suffered emotional, physical, and sexual abuse
Why are so many indigenous 
children in the child welfare system?
--- Slide 5 ---
Abuse and trauma hindered victims’ ability to take care of their own children
In being separated from their own families and communities, they did not learn from their own parents how to be caring and nurturing parents themselves - what they learned was abuse

Many Indian residential school survivors, themselves, have made this point
Josie Bear, a First Nations elder, was exposed to severe discipline as a student in residential schools. As she states, because of this, she treated her own children much the same
"I brought them up in a pretty horrible way - didn't know how to parent, didn't know how to show love"

Abuse and trauma also hindered victims’ ability to succeed in life 
Homelessness or poverty, substance abuse

This then led to the “poverty” and “lack of adequate food or housing” that the government cites as reasons for putting indigenous children into the child welfare system

But, why do so many of their children find themselves in 
Canada’s child welfare system, separated from their parents?
--- Slide 6 ---
So, to sum it up, the Canadian government forced the past indigenous population into residential schools. 

This led to trauma, which then led to an inability to care for the next generation.

This resulted in much of the next generation being placed in Canada’s child welfare system. 

This led and still leads to homelessness, substance abuse, and sexual exploitation amongst many contemporary indigenous youth - of which women and girls are especially vulnerable to.

--- Slide 7 ---
Only some of many examples:

Drag the Red
Indigenous activists search the Red River in Manitoba themselves, looking for human remains of missing and murdered indigenous women 

Claudette Osborne
Her family led her own investigation themselves - put up posters, talked to witnesses, followed up on her whereabouts 

Midnight Medicine Walk
The purpose of which is 1) to reach out to women that are being sexually exploited, to offer them prayers and medicine, and to let them know they are being watched after and 2) to send a message to the men that pray on them that they are being watched by the community

Bear Clan Patrol
Community safety patrol that operates in dangerous neighborhoods 

Police response to missing/murdered indigenous women and girls has been insufficient. What steps are indigenous activists taking?
--- Slide 8 ---
Stephen Harper and his conservative government did not recognize this as an issue
Justin Trudeau and his liberal government initiated the national inquiry

Its job?
Examine the systemic causes of violence against indigenous women
Offer recommendations on how to keep them safe

But, what indigenous activists wanted was an action-plan
They wanted resources and preventions put in place to stop violence from happening now
They worry there will be no legal outcome as a result of the national inquiry

Canada’s National Inquiry into Missing and 
Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls
--- Slide 9 ---
Inquiry into Murdered and Missing Indigenous Women and Girls
Final Report 2019
--- Slide 10 ---
After the 2015 Canadian federal election, the Liberal Government upheld their campaign promise and announced the initiation of a Canadian National Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women and Girls.
The final report was released in June, 2019.
--- Slide 11 ---

Marion Buller, chief commissioner of the inquiry, said that the report’s calls for justice are not just "recommendations" but are "legal imperatives" that must be implemented to help end a cycle of violence that has claimed the lives of thousands of Indigenous women.
"This report is about Indigenous people and the systemic factors that lead to their losses of dignity, humanity and, in too many cases, losses of life. 
“This report is about deliberate race, identity and gender-based genocide.”
--- Slide 12 ---
Indigenous women and girls are 12 times more likely to be murdered or to go missing than members of any other demographic group in Canada — and 16 times more likely to be slain or to disappear than white women.

Too often, Indigenous murder investigations are marked by indifference and negative stereotypes; causing Indigenous deaths and disappearances to be investigated and treated with less care and determination.

When there is a reasonable chance of a conviction, Crown attorneys are too often willing to accept plea bargains or reduced charges in exchange for guilty pleas.
The inquiry found that...

--- Slide 13 ---
More Indigenous judges, justices of the peace and police should be hired to ensure Indigenous voices are in positions of power in the criminal justice system.

The RCMP need fundamental reforms. Ottawa should establish "robust and well-funded Indigenous civilian police oversight bodies" to prevent police negligence and misconduct in murder, rape, and sexual assault cases. 

The government should offer guaranteed access to financial support, legislated paid leave and disability benefits and "appropriate trauma care" to Indigenous victims of crime or other traumatic events.

Calls for justice...
--- Slide 14 ---
"Skeptics will be fearful and will complain that the financial cost of rebuilding is too great, that enough has been done, that enough money has been spent," said Buller. "To them I say, we as a nation cannot afford not to rebuild. Otherwise, we all knowingly enable the continuation of genocide in our own country."
- Marion Buller
--- Slide 15 ---
"To the survivors and families here today, and to those watching or listening at home, I want you to know that this report is not the end. The work of the commissioners, the stories they have collected, and the calls for justice they have put forward will not be placed on a shelf to collect dust.
You have my word that my government will turn the inquiry's calls for justice into real, meaningful, Indigenous-led action …”


- Justin Trudeau
What now?
No, really, what now?
===END===

===1. b The Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women_ Answers.docx===
The Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women:  Questions from Google Slides Presentation

 Explain how the child welfare system has contributed to the problem of missing and murdered Aboriginal Women.


 Why have so many Native children ended up in the child welfare system today?.  (In other words, being removed from their families)


What is meant, when we say that the police response has been insufficient?  Provide an example. 
 

 Some of the steps activists have been taking:


 Why the Inquiry?  In other words, what was its job?  



 What did Indigenous Activists want?  


 Explain, in your own words, 5 of the findings of the Inquiry into Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women.


 Explain, in your own words, 5 of the recommendations stemming from the Inquiry:

 













 


===END===

===1. d Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women in Canada.docx===
Missing and Murdered Aboriginal Women in Canada

https://www.cbc.ca/missingandmurdered/


A: Personal Details about the victim		What happened?                   

B:  Once you have collected information on at least ten missing or murdered aboriginal girls in Canada, you must work with a partner to answer the following questions:

 Explore at least two common trends you notice among all of the people you have studied.  Discuss below.  



 After reflecting on what you have learned, write a reflection of at least 100 words explaining why there are so many missing and murdered aboriginal women in Canada?




 What do you think should be done about this issue in our country?  Explain.  
 | 
















 | 








 | 







 | 







 | 








 | 








 | 







 | 







 | 







 | 
===END===

===3. a Uncontacted Tribes.docx===
Uncontacted Tribes

https://www.survivalinternational.org/campaigns/uncontacted

https://time.com/5466416/survival-international-india-sentinelese-john-allen-chau/

https://www.bbc.com/future/article/20140804-sad-truth-of-uncontacted-tribes

https://bigthink.com/surprising-science/there-are-more-than-100-uncontacted-tribes-in-the-world-who-are-they/


 Look at the links above and choose one or two to help you answer the questions below.  
Did you read  Letter A, B, C, or D?  


  Is there such a thing as “uncontacted tribes”?  Explain fully.  You may use jot notes with key points if you prefer that to writing out a paragraph.



Roughly how many uncontacted tribes are there in the world?  


 
Historically, what has happened to these uncontacted tribes when they have come into contact with outside forces?  Explain fully. 


 How have industries contributed to the problem of interacting with the outside world?



 Provide examples of how these tribes have benefitted from contact with the outside world?



 What are some arguments for making planned, organized contact?  

Should we make contact with uncontacted tribes in places like Brazil? Complete the attached chart. 


 How does the idea of contacting tribes today compare with what you have learned about Euorpean contact in this course?  


Knowing what you now know from this course, a) should contact ever have been made between the Europeans and the Mi’kmaw people?  b)  Could things have been done differently?  How?   Be specific.  
Benefits of Contact | Problems with Contact
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
===END===

===3. c Elon Musk brings Internet to Remote Tribes.docx===
[Heading 1] 
[Heading 1] Video: https://nyti.ms/3yFWOnf 
[Heading 1] 
[Heading 1] The Internet’s Final Frontier: Remote Amazon Tribes
Elon Musk’s Starlink has connected an isolated tribe to the outside world — and divided it from within.  

As the speeches dragged on, eyes drifted to screens. Teenagers scrolled Instagram. One man texted his girlfriend. And men crowded around a phone streaming a soccer match while the group’s first female leader spoke.
Just about anywhere, a scene like this would be mundane. But this was happening in a remote Indigenous village in one of the most isolated stretches of the planet.
The Marubo people have long lived in communal huts scattered hundreds of miles along the Ituí River deep in the Amazon rainforest. They speak their own language, take ayahuasca to connect with forest spirits and trap spider monkeys to make soup or keep as pets.
They have preserved this way of life for hundreds of years through isolation — some villages can take a week to reach. But since September, the Marubo have had high-speed internet thanks to Elon Musk.

The 2,000-member tribe is one of hundreds across Brazil that are suddenly logging on with Starlink, the satellite-internet service from Space X, Mr. Musk’s private space company. Since its entry into Brazil in 2022, Starlink has swept across the world’s largest rainforest, bringing the web to one of the last offline places on Earth.
The New York Times traveled deep into the Amazon to visit Marubo villages to understand what happens when a tiny, closed civilization suddenly opens to the world.
Image

Many Marubo people have signed up for Facebook and Instagram accounts since Starlink arrived in their village.
Image

The Marubo people frequently use their phones, bought in the closest city, when the Starlink antenna is turned on in their village.
“When it arrived, everyone was happy,” said Tsainama Marubo, 73, sitting on the dirt floor of her village’s maloca, a 50-foot-tall hut where the Marubo sleep, cook and eat together. The internet brought clear benefits, like video chats with faraway loved ones and calls for help in emergencies. “But now, things have gotten worse,” she said.

She was kneading jenipapo berries to make a black body paint and wearing ropes of jewelry made from snail shells. Lately, the youth had become less interested in making such dyes and jewelry, she said. “Young people have gotten lazy because of the internet,” she said. “They’re learning the ways of the white people.”
Then she paused and added, “But please don’t take our internet away.”
The Marubo are struggling with the internet’s fundamental dilemma: It has become essential — at a cost.
After only nine months with Starlink, the Marubo are already grappling with the same challenges that have racked American households for years: teenagers glued to phones; group chats full of gossip; addictive social networks; online strangers; violent video games; scams; misinformation; and minors watching pornography.
Modern society has dealt with these issues over decades as the internet continued its relentless march. The Marubo and other Indigenous tribes, who have resisted modernity for generations, are now confronting the internet’s potential and peril all at once, while debating what it will mean for their identity and culture.

Marubo people carrying a Starlink satellite antenna stopped for a break to eat papaya.
Image

The Javari Valley Indigenous Territory, where the Marubo people live, is one of the most isolated places on Earth.
That debate has arrived now because of Starlink, which has quickly dominated the satellite-internet market worldwide by providing service once unthinkable in such remote areas. SpaceX has done so by launching 6,000 low-orbiting Starlink satellites — roughly 60 percent of all active spacecraft — to deliver speeds faster than many home internet connections to just about anywhere on Earth, including the Sahara, the Mongolian grasslands and tiny Pacific islands.
Business is soaring. Mr. Musk recently announced that Starlink had surpassed three million customers across 99 countries. Analysts estimate that annual sales are up roughly 80 percent from last year, to about $6.6 billion.
[Heading 2] More on Brazil
The Internet’s Final Frontier: Elon Musk’s Starlink, the satellite-internet service, has connected the Marubo people, an isolated tribe in the Amazon, to the outside world — and divided it from within.
A Massive Fossil Donation: A gift of more than 1,100 Brazilian fossils aims to step up efforts to rebuild the country’s National Museum, which suffered major fire damage in 2018.
New Political Players: Just a few months ago, the movement behind Brazil’s far-right former president, Jair Bolsonaro, was sputtering. Now he’s seeing a surge of momentum — with the help of Elon Musk and House Republicans.
Clashing Climate Goals: The state-owned company Petrobras could soon be the world’s third-biggest oil producer, even as Brazil positions itself as a leader in the fight against climate change and deforestation in the Amazon.
Starlink’s rise has given Mr. Musk control of a technology that has become critical infrastructure in many parts of the globe. It is being used by troops in Ukraine, paramilitary forces in Sudan, Houthi rebels in Yemen, a hospital in Gaza and emergency responders across the world.
But perhaps Starlink’s most transformative effect is in areas once largely out of the internet’s reach, like the Amazon. There are now 66,000 active contracts in the Brazilian Amazon, touching 93 percent of the region’s legal municipalities. That has opened new job and education opportunities for those who live in the forest. It has also given illegal loggers and miners in the Amazon a new tool to communicate and evade authorities.

One Marubo leader, Enoque Marubo (all Marubo use the same surname), 40, said he immediately saw Starlink’s potential. After spending years outside the forest, he said he believed the internet could give his people new autonomy. With it, they could communicate better, inform themselves and tell their own stories.
Image

Enoque Marubo installing a Starlink satellite antenna in Manakieaway, a Marubo village.
Image

Enoque has split his life between the forest and the city, working at one point as a graphic designer for Coca-Cola.
Last year, he and a Brazilian activist recorded a 50-second video seeking help getting Starlink from potential benefactors. He wore his traditional Marubo headdress and sat in the maloca. A toddler wearing a necklace of animal teeth sat nearby.
They sent it off. Days later, they heard back from a woman in Oklahoma.
[Heading 2] The Tribe
The Javari Valley Indigenous Territory is one of the most isolated places on Earth, a dense stretch of rainforest the size of Portugal with no roads and a maze of waterways. Nineteen of the 26 tribes in the Javari Valley live in full isolation, the highest concentration in the world.

The Marubo were once uncontacted, too, roaming the forest for hundreds of years, until rubber tappers arrived near the end of the 19th century. That led to decades of violence and disease — and the arrival of new customs and technology. The Marubo began wearing clothes. Some learned Portuguese. They swapped bows for firearms to hunt wild boar, and machetes for chain saws to clear plots for cassava.
One family in particular pushed this change. In the 1960s, Sebastião Marubo was one of the first Marubo to live outside the forest. When he returned, he brought another new technology: the boat motor. It cut trips from weeks to days.





Villagers using their phones, connected to the internet via Starlink.
His son Enoque emerged as a leader of the next generation, eager to pull his tribe into the future. Enoque has split his life between the forest and the city, working at one point as a graphic designer for Coca-Cola. So when Marubo leaders became interested in getting internet connections, they went to him to ask how.
Enoque got his answer when Mr. Musk came to Brazil. In 2022, the SpaceX owner and Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s president at the time, announced Starlink’s arrival in front of a screen that said, “Connecting the Amazon.”

Enoque and Flora Dutra, a Brazilian activist who works with Indigenous tribes, sent letters to more than 100 members of Congress asking for Starlink. None responded.
Then early last year, Ms. Dutra saw an American woman speak at a space conference. Ms. Dutra checked the woman’s Facebook page and saw her posing outside SpaceX’s headquarters. “I knew she was the one,” she said.
[Heading 2] The Benefactor
Allyson Reneau’s LinkedIn page describes her as a space consultant, keynote speaker, author, pilot, equestrian, humanitarian, chief executive, board director and mother of 11 biological children. In person, she says she makes most of her money coaching gymnastics and renting houses near Norman, Okla.
Her story is ripe for the “Today Show” — and, indeed, she has told it there. She enrolled in college at 47, got a master’s degree from Harvard Extension School at 55 and then became a traveling motivational speaker. Her social media shows her with children in Rwanda, on television in Pakistan and at conferences in South Africa.
The attention she has attracted has not always been well received. In 2021, she was interviewed on CNN and Fox News for “rescuing” an all-girls robotics team from Afghanistan during the Taliban takeover. But days later, lawyers for the robotics team told Ms. Reneau to stop taking credit for a rescue she had little to do with.

Ms. Reneau said she did not try to help people for fame. “Otherwise, I’d be telling you about all the projects I do all over the world,” she said in an interview. “It’s the look on the face, it’s the hope in the eyes. That’s the trophy.”
She said she had that perspective when she received a video from a stranger last year asking to help connect a remote Amazon tribe.
Image

Allyson Reneau, right, has donated more than 20 Starlink antennas to the Marubo people. Here she is with Pajé Kaku of the Noke Kuī people, who was visiting a Marubo village.
Image

The Marubo people carried the Starlink antennas to their villages via multiple boat trips and miles of hiking.
She had never been to Brazil but thought the return on investment was high. Enoque was asking for 20 Starlink antennas, which would cost roughly $15,000, to transform life for his tribe.

“Do you remember Charlie Wilson?” Ms. Reneau asked me. She was referring to the Texas congressman who secured Stinger missiles that helped the Afghan mujahedeen defeat the Soviets in the 1980s — but that critics say also unintentionally gave rise to the Taliban.
Mr. Wilson changed that war with one weapon, she said. “I could see that this was similar,” she said. “One tool would change everything in their life. Health care, education, communication, protection of the forest.”
Ms. Reneau said she bought the antennas with her own money and donations from her children. Then she booked a flight to go help deliver them.
[Heading 2] The Connection
The internet arrived on the backs of men. They trudged miles through the forest, barefoot or in flip-flops, carrying two antennas each.
Just behind were Enoque, Ms. Dutra, Ms. Reneau and a cameraman documenting her journey.
In the villages, they nailed the antennas to the tops of poles and plugged them into solar panels. The antennas then began connecting Starlink satellites to villagers’ phones. (Some Marubo already had phones, often bought with government welfare checks, to take photographs and communicate when in a city.)

The internet was an immediate sensation. “It changed the routine so much that it was detrimental,” Enoque admitted. “In the village, if you don’t hunt, fish and plant, you don’t eat.”
Image

The Marubo people also carry solar panels to their villages, which are used to power the Starlink antennas.
Image

Flora Dutra, a Brazilian activist who works with Indigenous tribes, right, with Ms. Reneau and Enoque Marubo.
Leaders realized they needed limits. The internet would be switched on for only two hours in the morning, five hours in the evening, and all day Sunday.
During those windows, many Marubo are crouched over or reclined in hammocks on their phones. They spend lots of time on WhatsApp. There, leaders coordinate between villages and alert the authorities to health issues and environmental destruction. Marubo teachers share lessons with students in different villages. And everyone is in much closer contact with faraway family and friends.

To Enoque, the biggest benefit has been in emergencies. A venomous snake bite can require swift rescue by helicopter. Before the internet, the Marubo used amateur radio, relaying a message between several villages to reach the authorities. The internet made such calls instantaneous. “It’s already saved lives,” he said.
[Heading 2] The Debate
In April, seven months after Starlink’s arrival, more than 200 Marubo gathered in a village for meetings.
Enoque brought a projector to show a video about bringing Starlink to the villages. As proceedings began, some leaders in the back of the audience spoke up. The internet should be turned off for the meetings, they said. “I don’t want people posting in the groups, taking my words out of context,” another said.
During the meetings, teenagers swiped through Kwai, a Chinese-owned social network. Young boys watched videos of the Brazilian soccer star Neymar Jr. And two 15-year-old girls said they chatted with strangers on Instagram. One said she now dreamed of traveling the world, while the other wants to be a dentist in São Paulo.

This new window to the outside world had left many in the tribe feeling torn.
“Some young people maintain our traditions,” said TamaSay Marubo, 42, the tribe’s first woman leader. “Others just want to spend the whole afternoon on their phones.”
Image

Voa Marubo with her pet monkey in the Manakieaway village.
Image

The Marubo eat from the same bowls placed on the ground, and their diet consists of cassava, wild boar, fish and banana porridge.
Kâipa Marubo, a father of three, said he was happy that the internet was helping educate his children. But he also was concerned about the first-person-shooter video games his two sons play. “I’m worried that they’re suddenly going to want to mimic them,” he said. He tried to delete the games, but believed his sons had other hidden apps.
Alfredo Marubo, leader of a Marubo association of villages, has emerged as the tribe’s most vocal critic of the internet. The Marubo pass down their history and culture orally, and he worries that knowledge will be lost. “Everyone is so connected that sometimes they don’t even talk to their own family,” he said.
He is most unsettled by the pornography. He said young men were sharing explicit videos in group chats, a stunning development for a culture that frowns on kissing in public. “We’re worried young people are going to want to try it,” he said of the graphic sex depicted in the videos. He said some leaders had told him they had already observed more aggressive sexual behavior from young men.

Alfredo and Enoque, as the heads of dueling Marubo associations, were already political rivals, but their disagreement over the internet has created a bitter dispute. After Ms. Dutra and Ms. Reneau delivered the antennas, Alfredo reported them for lacking proper permission from federal authorities to enter protected Indigenous territory. In turn, Ms. Dutra criticized Alfredo in interviews and Enoque said he was not welcome at the tribal meetings.
[Heading 2] The Future
Ms. Dutra now has a goal to bring Starlink to hundreds more Indigenous groups across the Amazon, including Brazil’s largest remote tribe, the Yanomami.
Some Brazilian government officials and nongovernmental agencies said they worried that the internet was being rolled out to tribes too quickly, often without training on the dangers.
Ms. Dutra said Indigenous groups wanted and deserved connections. The criticism, she said, was part of a long tradition of outsiders telling the Indigenous how to live. “This is called ethnocentrism — the white man thinking they know what’s best,” she said.
Enoque and Ms. Dutra said they planned to provide internet training. No Marubo interviewed said they had yet received it.

In April, Ms. Reneau traveled back to the forest. At Enoque’s request, she bought four more antennas. Two were headed to the Korubo, a tribe of less than 150 people that was first contacted in 1996 and still has some members in full isolation.
Image

Mētsise Marubo playing in the river in the Kapyvanaway village of the Marubo people.
Image

Marubo women applying traditional body paint made with fruit from the Amazon rainforest.
Sitting on a log, eating dried beef and boiled cassava served on the maloca’s dirt floor, Ms. Reneau said she recognized the internet was “a double-edged sword.” So when she posts on Facebook about bringing the Marubo internet, she said, she always stresses that a leader requested it.
“I don’t want people to think I’m bringing this in to force it on them,” she said. She added that she hoped they could “preserve the purity of this incredible culture because once it’s gone, it’s gone.”

Later at that same meal, Enoque’s father, Sebastião, said the tribe’s journey with the internet had been foretold.
Decades ago, the most respected Marubo shaman had visions of a hand-held device that could connect with the entire world. “It would be for the good of the people,” he said. “But in the end, it wouldn’t be.”
“In the end,” he added, “there would be war.”
His son sat on the log across from him, listening. “I think the internet will bring us much more benefit than harm,” Enoque said, “at least for now.”
Regardless, he added, going back was no longer an option.
“The leaders have been clear,” he said. “We can’t live without the internet.”
Image


===END===

===4. a Change has started–How have things been changing for the better in Mi’kmaw Communities.docx===
Improving First Nations Communities:         /50

Change has started–How have things been changing for the better in Naive Communities in Canada?

https://news.novascotia.ca/en/2019/08/29/energy-efficiency-upgrades-mikmaw-homes

https://www.canada.ca/en/indigenous-services-canada/news/2023/10/confederacy-of-mainland-mikmaq-and-government-of-canada-sign-historic-framework-agreement-a-milestone-in-delivering-housing-and-infrastructure-serv.html

https://halifax.citynews.ca/2024/02/15/economic-reconciliation-mikmaw-communities-invest-in-nova-scotia-battery-plants/

https://halifax.citynews.ca/2024/02/15/economic-reconciliation-mikmaw-communities-invest-in-nova-scotia-battery-plants/

https://iwkhealth.ca/news-and-stories/first-nations-mikmaq-led-research-leads-cultural-safety-curriculum-clinicians

https://mikmaqrights.com/?page_id=109

https://www.edcan.ca/articles/in-nova-scotia-a-mikmaw-model-for-first-nation-education/

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/nova-scotia/nova-scotia-health-iwk-mi-kmaw-indigenous-patient-navigator-program-1.6908859

https://magnetnetwork.ca/new-brunswick-mikmaq-community-comes-together-to-improve-early-childhood-education/

https://www.sac-isc.gc.ca/eng/1614385724108/1614385746844

https://www.millbrookband.com/about

https://www.aptnnews.ca/national-news/boosting-first-nation-economies-part-reconciliation/



In your own words, using the material provided,clearly explain at least 15 positive things happening today:   /15


Important Contributions of First Nations’ People  /15

https://education.afn.ca/afntoolkit/web-modules/plain-talk-13-first-nations-role-models-and-scholarships/role-models/

https://canadianwomen.org/blog/indigenous-womens-firsts/

https://www.cbu.ca/indigenous-initiatives/lnu-resource-centre/mikmaq-resource-guide/mikmaq-achievements/

http://www.danielnpaul.com/Col/2002/ChiefCharlesLabrador-GreatRoleModel.html

https://canadianwomen.org/blog/indigenous-womens-firsts/

https://canadianwomen.org/blog/indigenous-womens-firsts/

https://news.novascotia.ca/en/2009/03/13/video-features-young-mikmaq-role-models

http://www.danielnpaul.com/Col/2001/NoelKnockwood-RoleModelForAll.html

Name of First Nations’ Role Model			          Contribution (In your own words)

 When finished, Create a Neat, Bright, Colorful Poster with at Least 10 Facts about Positive Things Happening in Mi’kmaw Communities.  Watch Spelling!  Drawings are appreciated as well!  /10

 When finished, Create a Neat, Bright, Colorful Poster with at Least 10 Example of First Nations’ Role Models, with a description  of what they had done.   Watch Spelling!  Drawings are appreciated as well!  /10















 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
 | 
===END===

===5. a True Story_  2 Part Video.docx===
Course Summary Video:  
True Story:  2 Part Video


Part 1: 


Part 2:  


September 30th, the National Day for Truth and Reconciliation, is a day of reflection and remembrance for Indigenous and non-Indigenous people across Canada. But how many Canadians know what they're reflecting on? How can we have reconciliation without truth? Many Canadians know only the history they were taught in school, much of which is biased, bogus, and downright racist. The time has come for us to face our true history. But do we really want to face the truth of the relationship between Indigenous and settler Canadians when it's so dark and daunting?

TRUE STORY is a feature documentary that sheds light on the history of the relationship between Indigenous and settler people as told by Indigenous voices from their point of view. Relying on oral history, TRUE STORY investigates how Indigenous history has been hidden and rewritten, Turtle Island's (North America's) creation story and the settler theories that challenge it, the unique tools Indigenous people use to record their history, and the powerful role of women, Elders, Two-Spirit and Indigiqueer people in Indigenous society. This historical journey is heartbreaking, astonishing and shameful, but it is also uplifting, inspiring well balanced with laughter laughter and light. As a nation living on what is now called Canada, how do we move forward together from the historical wrongdoings of our colonial history? If we truly want reconciliation, let!s start with the truth. It might be messy and it is definitely ugly, but moments of hope show us what this country could be - if we are open to facing and learning from the past.
===END===

===5. b High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education April 28.pdf===
--- Page 1 ---
HIGH SCHOOL
SUPPLEMENTARY
RESOURCE MATERIAL FOR
TREATY EDUCATION
Mi’kmaw Kina’matnewey 2020




HIGH SCHOOL
SUPPLEMENTARY
RESOURCE MATERIAL FOR
TREATY EDUCATION
Mi’kmaw Kina’matnewey 2020



--- Page 2 ---
CONTENTS
Summary 2
Project Scope 2
Course Outline 3
Section 1: Introduction to the course and Doctrines of Colonialism 3
Section 2: The Constitutional Framework in Canada 12
Section 3: Aboriginal Rights 17
Section 4: Wabanaki Confederacy 21
Section 5: Aboriginal People and the Justice System 26
Section 6: Understanding Mi’kmaq Treaties in the Maritimes 32
Section 7: Mi’kmaq Change Makers and Upstanders 39
CONTENTS


--- Page 3 ---
2 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
TREATY EDUCATION COURSE BOOK: DRAFT 1
This resource course book will lay out the blueprint and implementation of Treaty Education
into the Nova Scotia Curricula for grade 12 students and teachers. It is clear that both students
and teachers need a better understanding of the significant contribution of the Mi’kmaq to the
province of Nova Scotia. Further, it will enhance student learning of Treaty Education and Mi’kmaq
knowledge. In particular, both teachers and students would benefit from reliable and appropriate
content information within the classroom and in particular teachers will enhance their classroom
practice. There are several Mi’kmaq specific outcomes and indicators in the new curriculum and
these would be most effectively addressed with input from knowledgeable Mi’kmaw educators,
elders, and community members.
SUMMARY
The project team engaged the expertise and experience of Mi’kmaw community members, to help
design the curricula and lesson plans for engaging student learning experiences. The cooperation
and contribution of Mi’kmaw community members made the lessons helpful for both indigenous
and non-indigenous teachers and students. Potential partners included community members,
educators, education coordinators, knowledge holders, and elders.
PROJECT SCOPE
Outcomes and indicators to be addressed will include:
• Students will understand that Treaty relationships are based on the understanding of
Mi’kmaq identity which includes languages, ceremonies, worldviews, and relationship to
the land.
• Students will recognize and understand the spirit and intent of Treaties that there is
interconnectedness to the spiritual realm and the spirit and intent serve as a guiding
principle for our actions.
• Students will acknowledge that the social, cultural, economic, and political conditions of
the past played and continue to play a significant role in both the reality of the present
and the future generations.
• Students will appreciate that Treaties are sacred covenants between sovereign nations
and are the foundational basis for meaningful relationships with the Mi’kmaq within the
Province of Nova Scotia.
--- Page 4 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 3
Course Outline
Section 1
Introduction to the course and Doctrines of Colonialism
• Doctrine of Discovery
In 1095, Pope Urban II issued the Papal Bull Terra Nullius (meaning empty land). It gave the
kings and princes of Europe the right to “discover” or claim land in non-Christian areas.
The Doctrine of Discovery is a legal term or principle that goes back to the time of the first
exploration of North America by the European’s. This was the legal means by which the
Europeans claimed sovereignty and property rights in areas they allegedly discovered. By
the time Christopher Columbus set sail in 1492 this doctrine was a well-established idea in
the Christian world.
The claims of discovery were made without consultation with the people’s residing in these
territories whom the land actually belonged. The Doctrine of Discovery is a significant part
of history and the relations between the Europeans and Indigenous peoples, and underlies
their legal relationship to this day recognized under International law. Upon discovery of a
territory, the doctrine held that Indigenous peoples could not claim ownership of their land,
but only rights of occupation and use.
Under the Doctrine of Discovery the governing authority has the power to extinguish
Indigenous peoples’ property rights in their traditional lands and territories, including their
rights of self-determination within those lands. The Doctrine of Discovery legitimizes the
domination and colonization of Indigenous Nations and continues to impact the rights of
Indigenous peoples.
Additional Resources:
https://upstanderproject.org/firstlight/doctrine
https://www.nps.gov/subjects/islandofthebluedolphins/upload/Lesson-Plan-Doctrine-of-
Discovery.pdf
• Indian Act
The Indian Act passed in 1876 and is a Canadian federal law that governs in matters relating
to Indigenous people in Canada. The Indian Act places Indigenous People in a different
category from all other Canadians. The Indian Act defines Indian Status, bands and reserves.
The Indian Act allows the federal government to regulate and administer in the affairs and
day-to-day lives of registered Indians and reserve communities. The Indian Act has also
allows the government to determine the land base of Indigenous peoples in the form of
--- Page 5 ---
4 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
reserves, and sets up a complicated process of who qualifies as Indian through Indian status.
The Indian Act is administered by Indigenous Services Canada, formerly Indian and
Northern Affairs Canada (INAC). The Indian Act is a part of a long history of assimilation
policies that intended to terminate the cultural, social, economic, and political
distinctiveness of Indigenous peoples by absorbing them into mainstream Canadian life and
values. The Indian Act displaced traditional Indigenous governance structures and imposed
a governance system without consultation and introduced the Indian agents to the Reserves.
Indian Agents were representatives of the Canadian Federal Government in the 1830’s. The
Indian agents enforced government polices and administered provisions of the Indian Act.
They also managed the day to day affairs of residents residing on reserves.
For much of the 19th and 20th centuries, Indigenous People were considered wards of
the state and put in the care of the government. Under the terms of the Indian Act the
superintendent general of Indian Affairs had sole decision making rights and responsibility
of Indigenous people. The Department of Indian Affairs employed Indian Agents to
administer the Indian Act and to manage local affairs.
The pass system was introduced in the 1800’s which was a process whereby Indigenous
people had to present a travel document authorized by an Indian agent in order to leave
and return to their reserves.
Indian Agents managed government resources and finances, distributed rations, paid
annuities, inspected schools, negotiated land surrenders, managed band finances and
infrastructure projects on reserves. Indian Agents conducted band council elections and
presided over band council meetings and made all decisions regarding resident’s access
to housing, welfare, enfranchisement, membership, etc. Many of the other roles and
responsibilities of the Indian agents were related to the goal of assimilating Indigenous
people into Canadian society.
The Indian Agents, for the most part, abused their authority often removing children from
their homes and taking them to residential schools or to non-native foster homes. The
Indian agents also had the power to determine who could be registered as a “Status Indian”
and abused that authority to the extent that people were enfranchised, removed or omitted
from the registry.
In 1884 Indigenous traditional ceremonies were banned and Indian Agents enforced this
ban and individuals practicing any forms of traditional ceremonies were charged and
arrested. The Indian agents managed estates of deceased band members, recording
information such as births, death and marriages. The federal government eliminated the
Indian agents in 1969 to make way for a new administrative structure that will be later known
as the White Paper Policy.
Additional Resouces:
http://education.historicacanada.ca/files/409/Activity_7_Worksheet_-_Indian_Act_
Amendments.pdf
--- Page 6 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 5
• Historical Discrimination of the Indian Act
Until as recently as 1982, the legal status of Indigenous women was affected by who they
married. Indigenous women with Status lost their Indian Status when they married a non-
Status man. All the children in these marriages would not be entitled to Indian Status.
Women also lost their status if their husbands died or abandoned them, in which case the
woman would:
• lose the right to live on reserve land and have access to band resources,
• not necessarily become a member of her previous band again,
• be involuntarily enfranchised, losing her legal Indian status rights; her children could
also be involuntarily enfranchised as a result.
Under the Indian Act, Indigenous women were also banned from voting and running in
Chief and Council elections. The oppression of Indigenous women under the Indian Act
resulted in long-term poverty, marginalization and violence, which they are still trying to
overcome today.
Bill C-31, An Act to Amend the Indian Act, was passed on June 17, 1985 and given Royal
Assent on June 28, 1985. Section 12 of the Indian Act was introduced in 1951 and
established a centralized register of all registered Indians. ‘Status’ or ‘registered’ Indians had
the right under the Indian Act to live on-reserve, to vote for chief and council, to share in
band monies, and to own and inherit property on-reserve.
Under the Indian Act, Aboriginal women lost their status when they married a non-Indian,
but allowed a status man to give status to his non-Indian wife status under the Indian Act.
Further a woman who married a non-Indian was not entitled to be registered and lost her
status. Between 1958 and 1968, an estimated 4,605 Indian women lost their Indian status
as a result of these provisions of the Indian Act. Indian Women were discriminated against
because of both race and gender.
The Canadian Constitution was amended; in 1982, the Canadian Charter of Rights and
Freedoms became part of Canadian constitutional law. Section 15 of the Charter prohibits
discrimination on the basis of race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, sex, or
mental or physical disability.
Just as it was to take effect, changes were made to the Indian Act to repeal Section 12 which
would have been unconstitutional under Section 15 of the Charter as it violated the right to
equality. These changes were contained in Bill C-31, which restored some of the rights taken
away from Indian women.
The Bill amended the Indian Act by restoring the status and membership rights of women
who had lost their status under the old laws. The amendments did not change the role
of the federal government in maintaining the Indian Register. A complicated framework
determines who may and may not apply for registration under the new provisions.
--- Page 7 ---
6 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
Bill C-31 greatly increased the number of status Indians in First Nations communities and
communities were already struggling with issues related to poverty such as over crowded
housing, dependence on social programs, and high unemployment rates. Although Bill
C-31 reinstated Indigenous women who had married non-Indigenous men and lost their
status as a result, many issues still remain. The main problem is that the federal government
still determines and decides who will be considered an Indian under the Indian Act. Under
Bill C-31 children cannot pass on status to their future children unless they marry someone
who has status.
Under Bill C-31 the Indian Act has two categories of Band members instead of one:
• people under section 6(1) (who are recognized as having full status)
• people coming under section 6(2) (who have only one-half the recognized Indian status
as those under 6[1])
Changes made to the Indian Act recognized the right of Indigenous people to control
their own membership. Each band is to create a band membership rules approved by a
majority of band electors. These rules must be approved by Indian Affairs. Bill C-31 also
abolished the concept of enfranchisement, the process whereby an Aboriginal person gave
up Indian status and band membership usually to get the rights of majority. Persons who
were enfranchised under the Indian Act for any reason (including those who gave up status
and band membership for the right to vote or to join the armed forces) are now eligible
to have their status restored. Their children are also eligible to be registered as persons
with status within the meaning of the Act. Bill C-31 still contains, a provision for someone
who voluntarily gives up rights as a status Indian, but the process is no longer called
enfranchisement.
In addition, the grandchildren of a woman who married were not eligible for reinstatement,
but the grandchildren of men who married out were eligible. This was amended with Bill
C-3. On December 15, 2010 Bill C-3: Gender Equity in Indian Registration Act received
Royal Assent. The Governor in Council has announced that effective January 31, 2011, the
Gender Equity in Indian Registration Act will come into force. The bringing into force of Bill
C-3 will ensure that eligible grand-children of women who lost status as a result of marrying
non-Indian men will become entitled to registration (Indian status).
In 2017 another Bill was passed through parliament to Amend the Indian Act to fix the
sex-based discriminatory registration provisions within the Indian Act. The issues were as
follows:
• Children who lost status when their mother married a non-status man;
• The cousins’ issue (differential treatment among first cousins whose status depends
on the sex of the grandparent;
• Unknown or unstated parentage;
• The sibling’s issue which includes females born out of wedlock between 1951
-1985 who were denied status.
--- Page 8 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 7
This does not fix the issue and there are remaining issues that go unaddressed by this
amendment. The federal government continues to determine who does and does not
qualify for “Indian Status”.
• Centralization
In the 1910s the Canadian Federal Government developed a Centralization Policy for the
Mi’kmaq of Nova Scotia. By 1919, 55 members of the Halifax County Band had moved to the
Millbrook Reserve. The population was listed as 124 by 1931. The political structure of the
Mi’kmaq was established at this time and leadership was strong on the Millbrook Reserve
under Chief Joseph Julian. The Mi’kmaq were included in the decision making process
and their ideas, including procurement of additional resources, were incorporated into the
program. Relocation can be viewed as only a minor disruption to the social and economic
structure of those involved. During the Great Depression, and as Canada was preparing for
World War Two, the government felt the need to ease the economic burden of providing
for the Mi’kmaq. Referring to the economic success of the Millbrook centralization, it was
decided in 1941 that the Mi’kmaq would be centralized to the two larger reserves, Indian
Brook and Eskasoni. By 1946, 816 people were living on Indian Brook where only 41
people had resided in 1931. The political structure was unorganized and representation
was weak and inexperienced. The move was forced on an uninformed people under threat
of enfranchisement and loss of government financial support. Without the acquisition of
additional resources, the overcrowded conditions had serious consequences on the social
and economic stability within the Indian Brook Reserve.
The Centralization Policy was created by the federal government in an attempt to do many
things, one of which included cutting administration costs by creating two central reserves,
one in Eskasoni and the other in Shubenacadie. Many Mi’kmaw families refused to move
and many of those who did so returned to what was left of their original homes, realizing the
promises of new homes and jobs made by the government would be unfulfilled. It was only
then that the government saw its plan had failed and the attempt to isolate our people was
abandoned. Today there are 18 Mi’kmaw communities in Nova Scotia.
Additional Resources:
http://www.danielnpaul.com/Canada’sShame-Centralization.html
• Residential Schools
The John A. Macdonald government implemented the Indian Residential School system,
and as recommended by the Davin Report, contracted with churches to manage the schools
at minimal cost to the government. With churches managing the schools, bureaucratic
complexities along with religious divisions created administrative blocks and gaps, which
impacted where children could attend school, (sometimes forcing children to attend school
out-of-province), the building and funding of too many schools with churches vying for
funding and position in communities, and the prevention of protective policies regarding
curriculum, limits on student labor, discipline, nutrition, admissions requirements, care of the
ill and deceased, and staff credentials.
--- Page 9 ---
8 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
The Canadian Government developed residential schools for Indigenous children in 1883
with two goals in mind:
• To protect Aboriginal peoples from European society, but it was intended to
assimilate them into European society at the same time.
• The government wanted to exclude Aboriginal people from having a say in their
own affairs and it failed to recognize their culture and traditions.
The Treaties obligated the federal government to provide an education for Indigenous
children and to maintain schools on reserves, but these proved to be expensive. So by
building residential schools, and by bringing the churches in to run them, costs were cut
dramatically. By 1923 there were 72 such schools, and by 1931 there were 80. Legislation
made school attendance compulsory for Aboriginal children between the ages of 7 and 15.
The children were removed from their communities, having little or no contact with their
families, for it was feared that students would go back to their ways if they returned to their
families and the reserve. Most residential schools did not allow children to speak their
language, and if students broke the rules they were severely punished.
Until 1930, the curriculum was largely religious instruction and moral education promoting
the values of European society. In residential schools, students would be lucky to reach the
academic equivalent of grade five by the time he or she was 18. These schools were grossly
under-funded; and despite the concerns raised by school officials, remained so until they
were disbanded.
The government had a deliberate policy to disrupt the social structures and economies of
First Nations by forcibly removing children from their traditional cultures, spirituality and
educational means. Indigenous governments were displaced and nations disintegrated as
a result. Languages were extinguished, and traditional healing, spirituality and ceremonies
were driven underground.
From 1894 to 1996, when the last residential school closed, the government tried to
assimilate Indigenous people, by giving Indigenous children a Christian education, teaching
them English or French, taking them from their family and replacing their values with
European values. Part of the plan was to train them to be farmers or housekeepers. These
schools were funded by the Federal Government and the Indian Act made this mandatory
and if parents did not comply it could result in a jail sentence.
During their schooling, students often experienced a variety of abuses from the people who
administered the school. The Royal Commission on Indigenous peoples recommended a
public inquiry to hold public hearings to document and investigate the origins and effects
of residential school’s policies and practices, and recommend actions, such as apologies,
compensation and funding for treatment for affected survivors and their families.
Four churches were involved in the operation of the residential schools for Indigenous
children; the Roman Catholic Church, Anglican Church, United Church and Presbyterian
--- Page 10 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 9
Church. An estimated 100000 to 150000 Aboriginal children attended residential schools,
representing about 20% of the Indigenous status population. All of the churches wanted to
bring the concept of the Christian education to Indigenous children.
The consequences were tragic for Indigenous people. During the times that the schools
operated, the churches supported the federal governments assimilation goals in running
the schools. Government paid for capital expenses and staff salaries through operating
grants. The residential schools could be considered to be an instrument of genocide. Every
Aboriginal group in Canada has suffered a loss of language, culture, religion and economic
existence. The essence of genocide is a purposeful intent to destroy a group out of
existence. In many ways this intention was achieved. Scores of children died from disease
while in the care of residential schools, others were emotionally and spiritually destroyed by
the harsh discipline and living conditions.
Confinement, humiliation, lack of privacy, physical, sexual, psychological abuses resulted
in dislocation, loss of pride and self-respect, and loss of identity within family, community
and nation. We speak of multi-generational effects. There are epidemic rates of suicide,
alcoholism, solvent abuse and family violence in some communities that are attributed to the
lingering effects of residential schools.
The schools alienated Indigenous people from their culture by separating children from
their families, forbidding them to speak their languages or to honor their traditions. This
has taken a toll on succeeding generations. For example, one generation of children
were punished from speaking their languages, when they became parents, they did not
teach their children their native tongue, to protect them; the third generation was denied
an opportunity to learn their languages, culture and traditions and are now attempting to
recover that knowledge.
It is widely believed that those who attended residential schools lost their ability to parent
and their identity as Indigenous people. The psychological trauma would have been passed
on to subsequent generations of children. The long-term effect of the schooling has been
termed the residential school syndrome.
Residential Schools had detrimental effects on the overall health and well-being of First
Nations. They were the product of a particular era, an era where Indigenous people were not
highly valued by the non-native community. The goal was for Indigenous people to give up
their traditions and replace them with values to assist them to blend in with the Canadian
society. These values included formal schooling, Christianity, and work experience.
The education for Indigenous children was transmitted orally by Elders and community
members as teachers. Education was no longer life long, or the responsibility of the entire
community. In fact, the community was portrayed as backward, ignorant and useless to the
children. The punishment in residential schools was very severe, there was a great deal of
physical abuse. These methods included isolation such as being put in cells, whippings
and public humiliation. The underlying purpose of the residential schools was to assimilate
Indigenous people into mainstream society by discouraging their languages, spirituality and
cultural practices. This corroded the structures of Aboriginal community practices and the
--- Page 11 ---
10 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
self esteem of First Nation families.
In Nova Scotia the Shubenacadie Indian Residential School, like all residential schools at the
time, was run by a religious order, in this case the Sisters of Charity, and (under)funded by
Indian Affairs. The school was in operation between 1923 and 1967. Almost all the children
at the school were Mi’kmaq from Atlantic Canada.
Additional Resources:
https://fernwoodpublishing.ca/book/out-of-the-depths-fourth-edition
https://www.nwac.ca/wp-content/uploads/2015/05/Residential-Schools-Fact-Sheet.pdf
http://www.danielnpaul.com/IndianResidentialSchools.html
https://nsadvocate.org/2017/06/21/understanding-our-story-two-books-on-the-
shubenacadie-residential-school
• White Paper Policy and the Hawthorn Report
In 1969, Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and Minister of Indian Affairs, Jean Chrétien,
introduced a policy paper that proposed ending the special legal relationship between
Indigenous peoples and the Canadian government to get rid of the Indian Act. This paper
was met with forceful opposition from Indigenous leaders across the country and sparked a
new era of Indigenous identity and political organizing in Canada.
By the 1960s, the federal government could not deny that Aboriginal peoples were facing
serious socio-economic barriers, such as greater poverty and higher infant mortality rates
than non-Indigenous Canadians and lower life expectancy and levels of education. The civil
rights movement was sweeping in the United States brought public attention to the intense
racism and discrimination experienced by African Americans and other minorities. The
movement also led many Canadians to question inequality and discrimination in their own
country, particularly the treatment of First Nations.
The federal government’s intent was to achieve equality among all Canadians by eliminating
Indian as a distinct legal status and by regarding Indigenous peoples simply as citizens with
the same rights, opportunities and responsibilities as other Canadians. The government
proposed to abolish the Indian Act. The white paper stated that removing the unique legal
status established by the Indian Act would “enable the Indian people to be free—free to
develop Indian cultures in an environment of legal, social and economic equality with other
Canadians.”
The White Paper proposed the following:
• Eliminate Indian Status
• Dissolve the Department of Indian Affairs within five years
• Abolish the Indian Act
• Convert reserve land to private property that can be sold by the band or its members
--- Page 12 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 11
• Transfer responsibility for Indian affairs from the federal government to the province and
integrate these services into those provided to other Canadian citizens
• Provide funding for economic development
• Appoint a commissioner to address outstanding land claims and gradually terminate
existing treaties
In 1963, the federal government commissioned University of British Columbia
anthropologist Harry B. Hawthorn to investigate the social conditions of Aboriginal peoples
across Canada. In his report, A Survey of the Contemporary Indians of Canada: Economic,
Political, Educational Needs and Policies, referred to as the Hawthorn Report. The report
concluded that Aboriginal peoples were Canada’s most disadvantaged and marginalized
population. They were “citizens minus.” Hawthorn attributed this situation to years of
failed government policy, particularly the residential school system, which left students
unprepared for participation in the contemporary economy. Hawthorn recommended that
Aboriginal peoples be considered “citizens plus” and be provided with the opportunities
and resources to choose their own lifestyles, whether within reserve communities or
elsewhere. He also advocated ending all forced assimilation programs, especially the
residential schools.
Based on Hawthorn’s recommendations, Chrétien decided to amend the Indian Act.
The federal government began a national program of consultation with First Nations
communities across Canada. The government distributed the informational booklet
Choosing a Path to reserve communities, organized community meetings, and in May 1969
brought regional Indigenous representatives to Ottawa for a nationwide meeting. During
these consultations, First Nations representatives consistently expressed concern about
Aboriginal and treaty rights, title to the land, self-determination, and access to education
and health care. In June 1969, Ottawa, in answer to the consultations, produced their white
paper proposing to dismantle Indian Affairs. The federal government wanted Indians to
participate in the growth of individual provinces and local services. Because they were tax
exempt the Indians did not develop services for themselves. Everything was done through
the Indian Agents.
The federal government wanted to pass on the responsibility of Indian Affairs to the
provinces, but most provinces of course were faced with their own problems. According the
to government the system of special legislation, “The Indian Act”, a special land system and
separate administration for Indian people was the basis for Indian policy. The Policy states,
“Discrimination breeds discrimination by example, and the separateness of Indian people
has affected the attitudes of other Canadians towards them.”
“The White Paper policy rested upon the rights of Indian people to full and equal
participation in the cultural, social, economic and political life of Canada. To argue against
this right is to argue for discrimination, isolation and separation.” The government knew that
they would have to amend s. 91(24) of the B.N.A. Act to end the legal distinction between
Indians and other Canadians. But in the short term they could get rid of the Indian Act and
introduce transitional legislation to ensure orderly management of Indian lands.
The government knew it would be a long process and would require a constitutional
--- Page 13 ---
12 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
amendment they would start developing some special legislation for Indian lands. The
government of Canada said that Indians now had a third choice and that was to have a full
role in Canadian society and in the economy while retaining their Indian identity and to
preserve only the good things of the past. The White Paper would transfer responsibility
for Indian affairs to the provinces and Indians would be treated as full and equal citizens
with all the responsibilities and all the privileges. The federal government proposed to
transfer all federal responsibilities for Indians from the Department of Indian Affairs to other
departments and to the provincial governments’.
In 1970, in response to the White Paper Policy the Chiefs of the Indian Association of Alberta
produced a counter document titled Citizens Plus: The Red Paper. Historical treaties are
important to Indigenous people as vocalized in the content of the Red Paper, and treaty
Indians, continue to see the treaties as significant to their contemporary relationship with the
state.
The Red Paper was an act of resistance by the Indian Association of Alberta that was
predicated on two key points: first, the Red Paper emphasized the treaty connection and
relationship between Indigenous people and the federal government; second, the Red
Paper articulated a model of “self-governance” that reinforced an Indigenous perspective.
Moreover, the Red Paper was generated by mutual cooperation between Indigenous
leaders and members of Indigenous communities in Alberta. The key concepts of treaties
and “self-sufficiency” were evident in both documents. This Red Paper determines the
essence of those differences by arguing that the differences in views, in the political
significance, as well as the emergence of Indigenous community opposition with regard
to the legal status of Indians, treaties, and lands is worth understanding for contemporary
citizens. The Red Paper demonstrates the significance of historical treaties as sacred
agreements, that never lost relevance for Indigenous people in Canada.
Additional Resources:
https://www.atlas101.ca/pm/concepts/white-paper-statement-of-the-government-of-
canada-on-indian-policy-1969/
https://www.cbc.ca/player/play/1473005172
Section 2
The Constitutional Framework in Canada
• British North America Act, 1867
In 1867, legislative jurisdiction over “Indians and Lands reserved for the Indians” was
assigned to the Parliament of Canada through the Constitution Act, 1867, a major part of
Canada’s Constitution. Originally enacted as the British North America Act (BNA), which
acknowledged that First Nations had special status. Separate powers covered “status and
civil rights on the one hand and Indian lands on the other.”
--- Page 14 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 13
Section 91(24) British North America Act, 1867, provide the federal Parliament and
government with exclusive authority over Indians and lands reserved for Indians. This
section authorizes Parliament to pass laws directly in relation to Indigenous people.
Therefore, provincial governments are not entitled to pass legislation directly in relation to
Indians or lands reserved for Indians. However, provinces are able to pass legislation with a
valid provincial purpose, governing Aboriginal peoples so long as the legislation does not
interfere with the purpose of the Federal jurisdiction. Therefore, the provincial law must not
interfere with the Aboriginal right or the core meaning of section 91(24).
In Canada, there are few constitutional provisions fraught with the enormous social,
economic and political difficulties and yet unresolved uncertainties as those dealing with
Aboriginal peoples and their rights. The ongoing controversies in New Brunswick and
Nova Scotia regarding Mi’kmaq treaty rights to harvest seafood for a “moderate livelihood”,
described as “food, clothing and housing supplemented by a few amenities”, are a case in
point.
Therefore, section 91(24) applies to Indigenous people whether residing on or off reserve
and the federal government also known as the Crown has the responsibility “to provide for
the welfare and protection of Indigenous peoples” in Canada. This responsibility represents
endorses the nation-to-nation relationship that existed before confederation.
• Constitution Act, 1982
Following the repatriation of the Constitution by Pierre Elliot Trudeau in 1982, Indigenous
people were assured under section 35 of the Constitution Act that their rights and status
were constitutionally protected.
Section 35(1) of the Constitution Act, 1982 constitutionally entrenches Aboriginal rights.
Prior to 1982 Aboriginal rights existed at common law and therefore could be altered and/or
extinguished by the federal government through “ordinary” legislation. Under section 35(1)
the following protections apply:
• All Indian, Inuit and Metis people protected.
• Rights protected are those that still existed in 1982.
• If they still existed in 1982, they cannot be abolished now, though there can be some
modification.
Section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982 provides:
“35(1) The existing aboriginal and treaty rights of the aboriginal people in Canada are
hereby recognized and affirmed.
(2) In this Act, “Aboriginal Peoples of Canada “includes the Indian, Inuit, and Métis Peoples of
Canada.
(3) For greater certainty, in subsection (1), “treaty rights” includes rights that now exist by way
--- Page 15 ---
14 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
of land claims agreements or may be so acquired.
(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this act, the aboriginal and treaty rights referred
to in subsection (1) are guaranteed equally to male and female persons.”
Additional Resources:
https://indigenousfoundations.arts.ubc.ca/constitution_act_1982_section_35/
• Meech Lake Accord
After Quebec refused to ratify the Constitution Act of 1982, the June 1987 Meech Lake
Accord, agreed between the federal government and all ten provinces, was designed to
address Quebec’s concerns by constitutionally recognizing it as a “distinct society.” The
accord would also provide new powers to the provinces.
The Meech Lake Accord was a series of amendments to the Canadian Constitution
proposed by Prime Minister Brian Mulroney and negotiated between him and the 10
provincial premiers. The main goal of the amendments were to gain Quebec’s consent
of the Constitution; Quebec had rejected the Constitution Act of 1982, changes to the
Constitution led by Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, and was estranged from the Canadian
“constitutional process.” The Meech Lake Accord would recognize Quebec as a “distinct
society” within Canada.
The Accord was initially supported by many Canadians, but over the course of a few years
opposition grew and grew—particularly from federalists (the Accord would weaken federal
powers) and Aboriginal groups.
To be ratified, the Accord needed support from the Canadian legislature and the legislatures
of each province within three years.
A Cree member of the Manitoba Legislative Assembly — Elijah Harper — blocked the vote
because it failed to provide for Aboriginal consultation. The Meech Accord expired in June
1990 and its failure contributed heavily to the close vote in the Quebec referendum of 1995.
Harper initiated delays in the Manitoba legislature on June 22, 1990—the last day the Accord
could be ratified—and ran out the clock to have the Meech Lake Accord approved in all
provinces.
• Charlottetown Accord
The history of the Charlottetown Accord is rooted in one of the central characteristics
of Canadian politics: Quebec’s place in Canada. This constitutional agreement included
elements such as patriating the Canadian Constitution, implementing a new formula for
amending the constitution, and adding a Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.
Quebec was the only Canadian province not to approve the Constitution Act, 1982, arguing
that it did not reflect any of its demands for constitutional reform. This did not leave Quebec
outside of the constitution in legal terms; all the new constitutional provisions applied to that
--- Page 16 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 15
province even though it refused to sign the agreement. Nevertheless, it did leave Quebec
outside the constitutional fold in a symbolic sense. The Government of Quebec, unlike the
other provincial governments, had not formally consented to the basic political framework
governing the country.
The Charlottetown Accord provided that the “aboriginal peoples of Canada have the
inherent right of self-government within Canada.” The inclusion of this clause was a major
breakthrough for First Nations peoples in that a year before the accord was reached, its
possible inclusion seemed unlikely. The use of “inherent” is crucial for First Nations peoples
in that it signifies the important nature of self-government and its central role in their ability
to define and to control their destiny.
The Charlottetown Accord also states that the inherent right of self-government and
amending section 31.1 of the Constitution Act to include the following:
“The Aboriginal peoples of Canada have the inherent right of self-government within
Canada.”
This would constitutionalize the inherent right of self-government and by itself, it represents
an historic step forward.
The Charlottetown Accord defined, to some degree, the scope of the inherent right and
made significant progress in terms of recognizing Aboriginal rights and the inherent right to
self-government and proposed a third order of government. However, the accord did not
secure for Aboriginal governments a right to the resources on the lands under their control
and to which many First Nations claim ownership. As well, it did not explicitly create a third
order of government nor new Aboriginal Crowns in the constitutional sense.
• Penner Report
In 1982, a House of Commons Special Committee on Indian Self-government was
appointed to make recommendations to Parliament on Indian Self-government. The
committee commissioned Keith Penner to lead the process. The Penner Report made
recommendations for improving Accountability and implementing self-government
procedures.
The report on Indian Self-Government proposed that the federal government use its
s.91(24) of the British North America Act, 1867 to get rid of the application of provincial laws
to reserves, and then negotiate with Indians different self – government mechanisms and
funding arrangements. The Penner Report highlighted the following to ensure economic
self-sufficiency:
• Granting more land
• Settling land claims
• Bigger share of revenues from resources connected with their lands
The Penner Committee engaged First Nations across the country and in the end received
--- Page 17 ---
16 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
support for a series of significant recommendations.
• that the federal government recognize First Nations as a distinct legal order of
government within the Canadian federation and pursue processes leading to self-
government;
• that the federal government introduce legislation to lead to the ‘maximum degree
of self-government immediately;
• constitutional entrenchment of self-government and the introduction of recognition
legislation,
In 1984, the Department of Indian Affairs delivered its response to the Penner Report by
first acknowledging that “Indian communities” were historically self-governing and that
further clarification of constitutional entrenchment would require greater consultation with
the provinces. Nevertheless, it agreed to introduce legislation to establish a framework for
those Indian First Nations that wish to govern themselves and their land in a way that is not
possible under the Indian Act. On June 27, 1984, Bill C-52 entitled, An Act relating to Self-
Government for Indian Nations was introduced in Parliament. It fell far short of the Penner
recommendations and did not go beyond first reading.
Additional Resources:
http://caid.ca/PennerRep1983.pdf
• Royal Commission on Aboriginal People
The Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples was created in order to help restore justice to
the relationship between Indigenous and non-Indigenous people in Canada and to propose
practical solutions to some of the problems. Established in 1991, the commission examined
the relationships between the government and Indigenous Canadians and between
Indigenous and non-Indigenous Canadians and advised the government on their findings.
After four years of consultation, testimony and research studies, including 178 days of
public hearings, 96 community visits the final Report of the Royal Commission on Aboriginal
peoples was released in 1996.
The Royal Commission was established following the Oka Crisis, a 78-day standoff between
Mohawk protesters and Canadian authorities over a proposed development on a Mohawk
burial ground which exposed serious problems with the handling of Aboriginal affairs. The
purpose of this inquiry was to explore the evolving relationship between the Aboriginal
peoples of Canada, the Canadian government and Canadian society.
The Commissioners were instructed to draw from local and international experiences to
make recommendations about how to address the problems with that relationship and also
the issues facing Aboriginal peoples through constitutional change and welfare policies.
The Indian residential school system, whereby Aboriginal children were removed from their
families with the aim of providing them with a basic western education, formed part of that
investigation.
--- Page 18 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 17
Under the leadership of six commissioners, four of whom were Aboriginal, the Royal
Commission undertook a broad research agenda. It held public hearings and received briefs
and submissions from individuals and groups, it commissioned research studies, published
reports and held round tables on Aboriginal issues.
The report produced a five-volume final report and 440 recommendations intended to
reframe the relationship between non-Aboriginal and Aboriginal Canadians and improve
the lives of Aboriginal people. Some of those findings related to the residential school
system that operated from the 1870s through the 1990s, which took Aboriginal children
away from their families. It found that the school system, far from benefiting the children
involved, had devastating effects on their lives. Essentially a tool of assimilation, the school
system isolated children from their support networks and subjected them to horrific physical
and psychological abuse. Sexual abuse was described as “pervasive”. The report highlighted
the need for a public inquiry into the residential school system’s purpose and its impact on
Aboriginal communities.
Additional Resources:
https://iog.ca/docs/1997_April_rcapsum.pdf
http://caid.ca/DRepRoyCommAborigPple.html
Section 3
Aboriginal Rights
Aboriginal rights are collective rights which flow from Aboriginal people continued use
and occupation of certain areas. These rights are inherent, which Aboriginal peoples have
practiced and enjoyed since before European contact, therefore, these rights are not vested
in any government or organization and not given to Aboriginal people by any government.
Some of the rights that Aboriginal peoples have practiced and recognized for themselves
have not been recognized by the federal government/crown. In 1982, the federal
government protected Aboriginal rights in Section 35 of the Constitution Act. These rights
still need more clarification and recognition since the federal government does not clearly
define them and leave it up to the courts to define the nature and status of Aboriginal rights
in Canada.
• Section 35
o Section 35 of Constitution Act 1982
￭ All Indian, Inuit and Metis people protected
￭ Rights protected are those that still existed in 1982
￭ If they still existed in 1982, they cannot be abolished now, though
there can be some modification.
￭ Therefore, key questions are what existed in 1982.
￭ 35(1) The existing Aboriginal and Treaty Rights of the Aboriginal
peoples of Canada are hereby recognized and affirmed.
￭ (2) In this act, “aboriginal peoples of Canada” includes the Indian,
--- Page 19 ---
18 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
Inuit, and Metis people of Canada.
• Royal Proclamation of 1763
o In the Royal Proclamation of 1763, as the British Empire established
control over North America, guidelines for the government’s relationship
with Aboriginal people were set. These are still relevant today. The Royal
Proclamation describes the basis for Treaties with Aboriginal peoples.
The Royal Proclamation of 1763 was issued by King George III (Britain)
after defeat in the Seven Years War. It required negotiation of treaties with
Aboriginal inhabitants before claiming land for settlement. Sometimes,
it was called an “Indian Bill of Rights.” The Royal Proclamation of 1763
recognized that:
￭ Aboriginal people lived on traditional lands. Interest in those lands
belonged to groups and nations, not individuals
￭ Only the Crown could purchase or accept Aboriginal land
￭ Only the Crown generally required an agreement to obtain lands
from Aboriginal people
￭ Aboriginal people were under the Crown’s Protection.
o The Royal Proclamation of 1763 is very significant. As it defines Canada’s
special relationship with Aboriginal people and sets out the basic in law for
Aboriginal land ownership and other rights.
R v. Sparrow
The 1990 R. v. Sparrow decision, created the “Sparrow test” which defined the scope of
an Aboriginal right and defined to what degree the Canadian government can reasonably
infringe upon, or limit, it. This case was instrumental and very controversial, in that it
confirmed Aboriginal rights are not absolute.
• Ronald Edward Sparrow, a member of the Musqueam Band, was caught fishing with
a drift net 45 fathoms (82 m) in length, 20 fathoms (37 m) longer than permitted by
the band’s fishing license under Fisheries. Sparrow admitted to all the facts in the
charge but justified it on the ground that he was exercising his Aboriginal right to
fish under Section 35(1) of the Constitution Act, 1982. At trial, the judge found that
section 35 only protected existing treaty rights and that there was no inherent right
to fish. An appeal to the Country Court was dismissed and a further appeal to the
Court of Appeal was dismissed on the grounds that there was insufficient evidence
to maintain the defense. The issue to the Supreme Court was whether the net
length restriction violated Section 35(1).
• R .v. Sparrow, [1990] 1.S.C.R. 1075 was an important decision of the Supreme Court
of Canada concerning the application of Aboriginal rights under section 35(1) of
the Constitution Act, 1982. The Court held that Aboriginal rights, such as fishing,
that were in existence in 1982 are protected under the Constitution of Canada and
cannot be infringed without justification on account of the government’s fiduciary
duty to the Aboriginal peoples of Canada.
• The Supreme Court held that Sparrow was exercising an “inherent” Aboriginal
--- Page 20 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 19
right, that existed before the provincial legislation and that was guaranteed
and protected by Section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982. To arrive at this, they
interpreted each of the words of Section 35(1).
• The word “existing” in Section 35(1), the Court said, must be “interpreted flexibly
so as to permit their evolution over time”. As such, “existing” was interpreted as
referring to rights that were not “extinguished” prior to the introduction of the 1982
Constitution Act. They rejected the Alternative “frozen” interpretation referring to
rights that were being exercised in 1982.
• Based on historical records of the Musqueam fishing practices over the centuries
and into colonial time, the Court found that the band had a clear right to fish for
food. Extinguishment of rights can only occur through an act that showed “clear
and plain intention” on the government to deny those rights. Here, the Court
found that the Crown was not able to prove that the right to fish for food were
extinguished prior to 1982. The licensing scheme was merely a means of regulating
the fisheries and not to remove the underlying right, nor did any historical
government policy towards fishing rights amount to a clear intention to extinguish.
“Recognized and Affirmed”
• The words “recognized and affirmed,” the Court held, incorporate the government’s
fiduciary duty to the Aboriginal people which requires them to exercise restraint
when applying their powers in interference with aboriginal rights. This further
suggests that aboriginal rights are not absolute and can be encroached upon given
sufficient reason.
• After the Sparrow case, federal or provincial legislation can only limit aboriginal
rights if it has given them appropriate priority, because aboriginal rights have a
different nature than other non-aboriginal rights. The “Sparrow Test” has been used
since this important decision by many experts as a way of measuring how much
Canadian legislation can limit aboriginal rights. The Supreme Court decided that
the regulations violated his aboriginal right to fish in that area.
• Key points in Sparrow Case
￭ Recognition of Aboriginal legal systems
￭ Rights could not be extinguished implicitly; there has to be a clear
intent to extinguish
￭ Rights exist in contemporary form
￭ Government has trust relation to Aboriginal people
￭ But, Aboriginal rights can be limited if good reason to do so
United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People
• The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP) was
adopted by the General Assembly on Thursday, 13 September 2007 by a majority
of 144 states in favour, 4 votes against (Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the
United States) and 11 abstentions (Azerbaijan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burundi,
Colombia, Georgia, Kenya, Nigeria, Russian Federation, Samoa and Ukraine).
Years have passed since the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
was adopted by the General Assembly. Since then, the four countries voting
against have reversed their position and now support the Declaration. Today the
Declaration is the most comprehensive international instrument on the rights of
--- Page 21 ---
20 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
Indigenous peoples. It establishes a universal framework of minimum standards for
the survival, dignity and well-being of the Indigenous peoples of the world and it
elaborates on existing human rights standards and fundamental freedoms as they
apply to the specific situation of Indigenous peoples.
What is the UNDRIP
• The United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP)
is an international instrument adopted by the United Nations on September 13,
2007, to enshrine (according to Article 43) the rights that “constitute the minimum
standards for the survival, dignity and well-being of the indigenous peoples of the
world.” The UNDRIP protects collective rights that may not be addressed in other
human rights charters that emphasize individual rights, and it also safeguards the
individual rights of Indigenous people. The Declaration is the product of almost
25 years of deliberation by U.N. member states and Indigenous groups. The first
of the UNDRIP’s 46 articles declares that “Indigenous peoples have the right
to the full enjoyment, as a collective or as individuals, of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms as recognized in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights(4) and international human rights law.” The
Declaration goes on to guarantee the rights of Indigenous peoples to enjoy and
practice their cultures and customs, their religions, and their languages, and to
develop and strengthen their economies and their social and political institutions.
Indigenous peoples have the right to be free from discrimination, and the right to
a nationality. Significantly, in Article 3 the UNDRIP recognizes Indigenous peoples’
right to self-determination, which includes the right “to freely determine their
political status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development.”
Article 4 affirms Indigenous peoples’ right “to autonomy or self-government in
matters relating to their internal and local affairs,” and Article 5 protects their right
“to maintain and strengthen their distinct political, legal, economic, social and
cultural institutions.” Article 26 states that “Indigenous peoples have the right to the
lands, territories and resources which they have traditionally owned, occupied or
otherwise used or acquired,” and it directs states to give legal recognition to these
territories. The Declaration does not override the rights of Indigenous peoples
contained in their treaties and agreements with individual states, and it commands
these states to observe and enforce the agreements.
Specific and Comprehensive Land claims
There are several kinds of land claims in Canada. These land claims deal with Indigenous
communities right to land and to the use and occupancy of the land.
In a land claim, an Indigenous Nation asks the federal government to address historic
wrongs. The community provides historical and legal documents to prove that the
community:
• is legally entitled to reserve land and/or to financial compensation, or
• never surrendered to the Crown its original rights in lands and natural resources
--- Page 22 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 21
Specific Land claims
These claims are about:
• the size and location of reserves or
• the improper use of reserve lands by others, particularly government
• reserve land was used in the past (e.g., to build a road) without permission
• financial compensation should be paid for using reserve land; e.g. Boat Harbour in
Pictou Landing.
Comprehensive Land Claims
Comprehensive land claims deal with the unfinished business of treaty-making in Canada.
These claims arise in areas of Canada where land rights have not been dealt with by treaty or
through other legal means. These claims are better known as modern day treaties and are
negotiated between First Nations, Canada and at times the province and/or territories.
These treaties are implemented through legislation and are the most comprehensive way
of addressing Aboriginal rights and title. These claims involve use and management of
land and resources. Some treaties may also include provisions relating to Aboriginal self-
government.
Section 4
Wabanaki Confederacy
At the time the European settler’s arrival in the1600s,the Mi’kmaq Nation belonged to the
Wabanaki Confederacy. The Wabanaki Confederacy was the highest level of governance,
similar to our Supreme Court of Canada in our judicial system.
The Wabanaki Confederacy included:
• the Mi’kmaq,
• the Wolastoqiyik,
• the Passamaquoddy,
• the Penobscot,
• and the Abenaki tribes.
The Wabanaki Confederacy were members of the Algonquin family and occupied lands east
of the St. Lawrence River, the Adirondacks and the Appalachians.
All these tribes respected the territory occupied by the Mi’kmaq. The area included all of
what is today:
• Nova Scotia,
• Prince Edward Island,
• The eastern part of New Brunswick,
• Newfoundland,
• and southern Gaspé.
--- Page 23 ---
22 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
The Mi’kmaq were part of the Wabanaki Confederacy and the Mi’kmaq Grand Council were
the political voice for the Mi’kmaq within the Confederacy. The Mi’kmaq are the Indigenous
people of Mi’kma’ki. The land of the Mi’kmaq is made up of seven districts:
• Unama’kik aq Ktaqmkuk (“foggy lands” and “land across the water”) – Cape Breton
Island and Newfoundland
• Epekwitk aq Piktuk (“lying in the water” and “the explosive place”) – Pictou County
and Prince Edward Island
• Eskikewa’kik (“skin-dresser’s territory”) – the area stretching from Guysborough to
Halifax County
• Sipekni’katik (“wild potato area”) – the counties of Halifax, Lunenburg, Kings, Hants
and Colchester
• Kespukwik (“last flow”) – the counties of Queens, Shelburne, Yarmouth, Digby and
Annapolis
• Siknikt (“drainage area”) – including Cumberland County in Nova Scotia, and the
New Brunswick counties of Westmorland, Albert, Kent, Saint John, Kings and
Queens
• Kespek (“last land”) – the area north of the Richibucto, including its rivers and parts
of Gaspe
Mi’kmaq Grand Council
The Grand Council (Santé Mawiómi or Mi’kmawey Mawio’mi) was the normal senior level of
government for the Mi’kmaq, based in present-day Canada, until passage of the Indian Act
in 1876, requiring elected governments. After the Indian Act, the Grand Council adopted a
more spiritual function. The Grand Council was made up of representatives from the seven
district councils in Mi’kma’ki and Keptinaq (“captains”), who were the district chiefs. There
were also elders, the Putu’s, the women’s council, and the Grand Chief.
• The Putu’s recorded the Mi’kmaw Grand Council meetings by stories and the
creation of wampum belts, a kind of visual history, and dealt with the treaties with
other native tribes and non-native groups.
• The hereditary chiefs of the traditional Grand Council continue to have a role, but
the legal authority to govern has been largely transferred by the Indian Act to the
elected chiefs and councils.
Traditional governance structures
• Indigenous Governance is very different from the political traditions which
emerged in Europe. European systems of government were designed to maintain
the privilege and powers of those superior people who claimed dominion over
the world and the right to rule other people. Indigenous people developed a
complex system of government prior to colonization. When European settlers came
here in the 1600s, the Mi’kmaw Nation belonged to the Wabanaki Confederacy.
This Confederacy included the Mi’kmaq, the Maliseet, the Passamaquoddy, the
Penobscot, and the Abenaki tribes. The tribes were all members of the Algonquin
family which occupied lands east of the St. Lawrence River, the Adirondacks and
the Appalachians. All these tribes respected the territory occupied by the Mi’kmaq,
who divided it into seven hunting and fishing districts. This region, known as
--- Page 24 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 23
Mi’kma’ki, included all of what is today Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, the
eastern part of New Brunswick, Newfoundland and southern Gaspe.
• The Mi’kmaw lived in extended family units, nuclear families among the Mi’kmaq
were grouped into living units of extended families. The territory of local Chiefs
seems to have been in an area occupied by the inhabitants of a single summer
village. Within the village, the Chief headed the council of elders, which consisted
of the heads or representatives of the families in the settlement.
• Father Pierre Biard, an early Jesuit priest among the Mi’kmaq, indicated that
decisions of the council of elders and the Chief depended upon a unanimous vote
of the members, and that only such decisions were regarded as giving the Chiefs
authority to act upon a certain matter (Hoffman 1955: 516). Oral history tells us
that the Mi’kmaq Nation was divided into seven districts. When the districts were
formed is not precisely known. Some researchers argue that this division of territory
came about after contact. Each district Saqmaw belonged to the national political
organization called Mi’kmawey Mawio’mi, or the Mi’kmaq Grand Council. The
Grand Council was the Mi’kmaq political organization. Heading the Grand Council
was a Grand Chief and an executive consisting of a Grand Captain and Putu’s. A
Grand Captain or War Chief, who was a great warrior, was second in command to
the Grand Chief, and the Putu’s, a messenger, and an important story-teller, were
among the Grand Council’s leadership structure. District Chiefs were chosen from
among the local Chiefs. Local Chiefs were chosen from the head man of the most
powerful local family. Early writers did not provide any evidence that there was ever
a female Chief in the Grand Council.
• Mi’kmaq tradition indicates that the Grand Council developed in response to a
need for organized interaction with other Aboriginal nations in matters of war and
trade and to organize the nation internally in social, ecological, economic, and
ceremonial matters. To become a Chief was the product of kinship affiliations and
superior personal ability and was customarily passed down through families having
tradition of chieftainship and members capable of assuming the role. The Grand
Chief of the Mi’kmaq, is the head of the entire nation. The Grand Chief achieved
his position by demonstrating the following qualities: leadership, ability, superior
intelligence, generosity, courage and aggressiveness in war, and a superior hunting
ability (Miller 1983: 47).
• Authority was secured by means of example, customs, kinship, and family alliance,
rather than by being obedient. Belonging to a large and powerful family was a
way in which one may become Chief and in particular, a Grand Chief. Local Chiefs,
District Chiefs and Grand Chiefs were great speakers and could convince their
followers to undertake actions such as going to war or forming alliances with
other nations, and dividing hunting and fishing territories. Family alliances were
significant in determining Chieftainship. Chieftainship was usually hereditary.
The eldest son of a Chief began training at an early age in order to meet the
requirements expected of him if he was to receive the position of Chief. If the
eldest son of a Chief did not demonstrate the expected qualities of leadership or
there were no male children directly descended from the Chief, the Chief would go
to his sister and ask her son. Thus, extended family networks were important.
• Historically, the Mi’kmaq practiced polygamy, which allowed Chiefs to expand
their networks of followers and alliances with other family groups. The greater the
--- Page 25 ---
24 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
family size, the greater the contributions to the Chief, which improved his ability
to redistribute goods to a larger number of people. Fulfilling such economic roles
would enable the Chief to gain respect needed in matter of war and other chiefly
duties.
The Inherent Right of Self-Government is a Section 35 Right
• The Government of Canada recognizes the inherent right of self-government
as an existing Aboriginal right under section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982. It
recognizes, as well, that the inherent right may find expression in treaties, and in
the context of the Crown’s relationship with treaty First Nations. Recognition of
the inherent right is based on the view that the Aboriginal peoples of Canada
have the right to govern themselves in relation to matters that are internal to their
communities, integral to their unique cultures, identities, traditions, languages and
institutions, and with respect to their special relationship to their land and their
resources.
• The Government acknowledges that the inherent right of self-government may be
enforceable through the courts and that there are different views about the nature,
scope and content of the inherent right. However, litigation over the inherent right
would be lengthy, costly and would tend to foster conflict. In any case, the courts
are likely to provide general guidance to the parties involved, leaving it to them to
work out detailed arrangements.
• For these reasons, the Government is convinced that litigation should be a last
resort. Negotiations among governments and Aboriginal peoples are clearly
preferable as the most practical and effective way to implement the inherent right
of self-government within the Canadian Constitutional Framework.
• Aboriginal governments and institutions exercising the inherent right of self-
government will operate within the framework of the Canadian Constitution.
Aboriginal jurisdictions and authorities should, therefore, work in harmony with
jurisdictions that are exercised by other governments. It is in the interest of both
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal governments to develop co-operative arrangements
that will ensure the harmonious relationship of laws which is indispensable to the
proper functioning of the federation.
• In light of the wide array of Aboriginal jurisdictions or authorities that may be
the subject of negotiations, provincial governments are necessary parties to
negotiations and agreements where subject matters being negotiated normally
fall within provincial jurisdiction or may have impacts beyond the Aboriginal group
or Aboriginal lands in question. Territorial governments should be party to any
negotiations and related agreements on implementing self-government north of
the sixtieth parallel.
• The inherent right of self-government does not include a right of sovereignty in
the international law sense, and will not result in sovereign independent Aboriginal
nation states. On the contrary, implementation of self-government should enhance
the participation of Aboriginal peoples in the Canadian federation, and ensure that
Aboriginal peoples and their governments do not exist in isolation, separate and
apart from the rest of Canadian society.
--- Page 26 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 25
Canada’s Self Government Policy
• Canada’s Inherent Right Policy was first launched in 1995 to guide self-government
negotiations with Indigenous communities. Negotiated agreements put decision-
making power into the hands of Indigenous governments who make their own
choices about how to deliver programs and services to their communities.
• Indigenous peoples practiced their own forms of government for thousands of
years before the arrival of European and other settlers in what is today Canada.
These forms of government reflected the economic, social and geographic
diversity of Indigenous peoples, as well as their cultural practices and spiritual
beliefs.
• Early partnerships between colonial governments with Indigenous nations were
forged through treaties, trade and military alliances. Over many centuries, these
relationships were eroded by successive laws, policies and decisions that were
based on a colonial and paternalistic approach. This includes the Indian Act, which
was passed in 1876 and continues to determine how most First Nations in Canada
are governed to this day. The Indian Act imposed a colonial governance system on
First Nation communities where authority rested with the federal Minister.
• Canada has now embarked on a journey of reconciliation between Indigenous
and non-Indigenous peoples. It is a necessary journey intended to address a long
history of colonialism and the scars it has left. The goal is to renew the nation-to-
nation, government-to-government, and Inuit-Crown relationships with Indigenous
peoples.
• The Government of Canada is working in partnership with Indigenous peoples
to undo federally imposed systems of governance and administration in favor of
Indigenous control and delivery. Canada is working with Indigenous peoples to
support them in their work to rebuild and reconstitute their nations, advance self-
determination and, for First Nations, facilitate the transition away from the Indian
Act and toward self-government.
• Self-government negotiations are one way to work together in partnership toward
this goal and advance Indigenous self-determination, which is a fundamental
Indigenous right and principle of international law, as set out in the United Nations
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
What is Indigenous self-government?
• Canada recognizes that Indigenous peoples have an inherent right of self-
government guaranteed in section 35 of the Constitution Act, 1982. Canada’s
Inherent Right Policy was first launched in 1995 to guide self-government
negotiations with Indigenous communities.
• Negotiated agreements put decision-making power into the hands of Indigenous
governments who make their own choices about how to deliver programs and
services to their communities. This can include making decisions about how to
better protect their culture and language, educate their students, manage their own
lands and develop new business partnerships that create jobs and other benefits
for their citizens.
• Because communities have different goals, negotiations will not result in a single
--- Page 27 ---
26 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
model of self-government. Arrangements take many forms based on the different
historical, cultural, political and economic circumstances of the Indigenous
governments, regions and communities involved. For example: Inuit land claim
agreements have been signed in all four Inuit regions. These Inuit communities are
pursuing their vision of self-determination under these agreements and in some
cases through ongoing self-government negotiations. The Métis are also actively
pursuing their own vision of self-determination through ongoing engagement with
their citizens and through dialogue at Recognition of Rights and Self-Determination
discussion tables with Canada.
• Self-government is part of the foundation for a renewed relationship and is
a pathway to development and economic growth that generates benefits for
Indigenous peoples.
Indian Band Elections
The majority of First Nations governments are composed of a chief and councillors who
responsible for making decisions on behalf of the First Nation and its members. The
number of councillors per First Nation is on a per capita basis and elections under the Indian
Act are for two-year terms. However, the First Nations Elections Act allows for Band Councils
to extend the terms for 4 years.
The selection of a chief and councillors can be held in one of these ways:
• Under the Indian Act
• Using the Indian Band Regulations
• Band Custom Election Codes
• Or the First Nations Election Act.
Additional Resources:
https://www.sac-isc.gc.ca/eng/1323195944486/1565366893158
Section 5
Aboriginal People and the Justice System
• Royal Commission on Donald Marshall Jr.
The Marshall case is one of Canada’s most famous examples of wrongful conviction and
racism against native peoples. In 1971, Donald Marshall Jr. and his friend Sandy Seale were
walking in Wentworth Park in Sydney, N.S. They struck up a conversation with two strangers,
Roy Ebsary and Jimmy MacNeil. Ebsary pulled a knife and fatally stabbed Seale in the
stomach; but Ebsary was not charged for the crime. Marshall who was 17 at the time, was
convicted of the murder and sentenced to life in prison. The trial took just three days.
Ten days after the conviction, Jimmy MacNeil came forward to say he was with Ebsary and
--- Page 28 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 27
had seen him commit the murder. In 1974, Ebsary’s daughter Donna told Sydney police
that she had seen her father washing blood from a knife on the night of the murder. In both
cases the information was not passed along to either the Crown or the defence team.
The Marshall Report issued by the Royal Commission on the Donald Marshall Jr. Prosecution
in December 1989 castigated the Nova Scotia justice system, and society in general, for the
injustices carried out against an innocent and defenseless Mi’kmaq boy.
On January 26, 1990, the Royal Commission of Inquiry on the Donald Marshall Jr.
Prosecution released its much-anticipated report on Mr. Marshall’s wrongful conviction for
murder (Commissioners’ Report – Findings and Recommendations 1989).
For the Mi’kmaq community, the most significant finding of the Inquiry’s three years of
work (public hearings, roundtables and independent research studies) was the conclusion
reached by the Commissioners that Donald Marshall Jr. was “convicted and sent to prison, in
part at least, because he was a Native person.”
The Commissioners described the evidence supporting this “inescapable conclusion” as
“persuasive” and said, “That racism played a role in Marshall’s imprisonment is one of the
most difficult and disturbing findings this Royal Commission has made.”
In January 1982 the RCMP reopened the investigation into Sandy Seale’s murder. As Staff
Sergeant Harry Wheaton and Corporal James Carroll reviewed the evidence and spoke
to the original witnesses they realized that Marshall could be telling the truth about his
innocence. On July 29, 1982, Marshall was granted parole after 11 years and one month
in custody and on May 10 1983 Marshall’s conviction was overturned but he was still held
responsible for his imprisonment for not admitting to being in Wentworth park to rob
people.
Two days later, Roy Ebsary was charged with 2nd degree murder. After three trials he was
convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to three years in prison which was reduced to
one year on appeal.
On September 26, 1984 the province of Nova Scotia announced a settlement of $270 000
for the years Donald Marshall spent in prison.
On October 28, 1986, the Royal Commission on the Donald Marshall Jr. Prosecution was
established in order to make recommendations on:
• the investigation of Sandy Seale’s death,
• the charging and prosecution of Donald Marshall Jr., and
• Marshall’s conviction and sentencing
A Royal Commission is appointed by the government to conduct an investigation. It can call
witnesses and review all evidence, it then makes recommendations which the government
may or may not act upon.
Beginning in September 1987, the Royal Commission heard from 62 witnesses in Sydney
and 52 in Halifax.
--- Page 29 ---
28 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
The Royal Commission found that:
• The criminal justice system failed Marshall
• If persons involved in the justice system had carried out their duties professionally his
conviction should not have happened
• Marshall was not responsible for his own imprisonment
• The fact that Marshall was Mi’kmaq played a factor in his wrongful conviction and
imprisonment
• Marshall had told the truth about what happened in Wentworth park
• The police response and investigation were “inadequate, incompetent, and
unprofessional”
• The Crown prosecutor and the defence counsel failed Marshall
Recommendations:
• The Nova Scotia Attorney General should adopt a policy on race relations that is
committed to employment equity and elimination of inequality based on race
• Police officers should undergo sensitivity training
• A Native Criminal Court should be established
• Mi’kmaq interpreters should be provided by the courts
• A Native court worker program should be established
• The RCMP and other police forces should take immediate steps to recruit and hire
Native people.
Additional Resources:
https://novascotia.ca/just/marshall_inquiry/_docs/Royal%20Commission%20on%20the%20
Donald%20Marshall%20Jr%20Prosecution_findings.pdf
https://www.nfb.ca/film/justice_denied
https://www.cbc.ca/archives/entry/1990-donald-marshall-exonerated-of-wrongful-conviction
• Manitoba Justice Inquiry
The Aboriginal Justice Inquiry was established in 1988 in response to two specific incidents:
the 1987 trial of two men for the 1971 murder of Helen Betty Osborne, and the 1988
shooting death of J.J. Harper following an encounter with a Winnipeg police officer. These
two events raised serious questions as to whether the justice system was failing Aboriginal
people.
The Commission was to consider the extent to which aboriginal and non-aboriginal persons
are treated differently by the justice system and whether there are specific adverse effects,
including possible systemic discrimination against aboriginal people, in the justice system.
The commission considered the manner in which the justice system operates and whether
there are alternative methods of dealing with aboriginal persons involved with the law. (AJI,
Volume I, page 3)
--- Page 30 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 29
The AJI held over 123 days of hearings, received over 1200 presentations and exhibits,
travelled more than 18,000 kilometres, and generated 21,000 pages of transcripts. Its final
report, released in 1991, filled two volumes and contained 296 recommendations.
These recommendations can be roughly divided into those that address questions of
Aboriginal rights, and those directed at reforms to existing institutions of the contemporary
justice system. The Inquiry’s major initiative in the area of Aboriginal rights was the
recommendation to establish an Aboriginal justice system based on rights of self-
government.
In their report, the Commissioners stated that without the creation of an Aboriginal justice
system, “problems of inequality and injustice will continue to plague our justice system.”
(AJI, Volume I, page 339) The proposed reforms to the existing system were numerous,
but their overall thrust was to reduce incarceration, increase Aboriginal involvement in the
operation of the justice system, and reduce cultural barriers. The AJI Commissioners stated
they were recommending these changes to the existing system because:
• many Aboriginal people would live in communities that would not be under the
jurisdiction of the proposed justice systems; and
• they believed that many of these reforms would serve as transitional steps to the
creation of Aboriginal justice systems.
Additional Resources:
http://www.ajic.mb.ca/volumell/chapter1.html
http://www.ajic.mb.ca/reports/final_toc.html
http://www.ajic.mb.ca/volumelll/chapter2.html
• Ipperwash Inquiry
On September 4, 1995, Chippewas from the Stoney Point Reserve began an occupation
of Ipperwash Provincial Park, located in Grand Bend, ON. Two days later, an Aboriginal
occupier, Anthony O’Brien George, also know as Dudley George, was killed during a
confrontation between the Aboriginal occupiers and the Ontario Provincial Police. The
Ipperwash Inquiry was established in 2003 by the government of Ontario to inquire and
report on the events surrounding the death of Dudley George, and make recommendations
on how to avoid violence under similar circumstances in the future.
The Ipperwash Inquiry was established by the Ontario government in 2003 to inquire and
report on the death of Dudley George. Its mandate also included making recommendations
on how to avoid violence in similar situations in the future.
Hearings began in July 2004 and ended in August 2006 and Justice Sidney Linden was
appointed Commissioner of the public inquiry. The Commissioner divided the inquiry into
two parts. The purpose of Part 1 was to inquire into and report on the events surrounding
the death of Dudley George. Part 1 heard testimony from 139 witnesses. The purpose of
Part 2 was to gather and analyze the information needed to make recommendations for
--- Page 31 ---
30 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
preventing future incidents of violence. As of March 31, 2007, the cost of the public inquiry
was $13.3 million. The report from the Ipperwash Inquiry was made available to the public
on May 31, 2007. It consists of four volumes and 100 recommendations.
Key themes of the recommendations:
• policing of Aboriginal protests and occupations
• relationships among federal, provincial and First Nations governments
• the land claims process
• sharing the benefits of resource development
• consultation concerning Aboriginal and treaty rights
• public awareness and education about Aboriginal peoples
The report also called on the government to create:
• a new stand-alone Ministry of Aboriginal Affairs
• an Ontario Aboriginal Reconciliation Fund
• a Treaty Commission of Ontario
Most of the report’s recommendations were carried out or in the process of being
addressed
Additional Resources:
https://www.attorneygeneral.jus.gov.on.ca/inquiries/ipperwash/faq/index.html
http://www.anishinabek.ca/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/Treaties-Matter-Understanding-
Ipperwash.pdf
• Aboriginal Alternatives to Justice
Restorative Justice is an approach to justice that focuses on addressing the harm
caused by crime while holding the offender responsible for his or her actions,
by providing an opportunity for the parties directly affected by crime – victim(s),
offender and community – to identify and address their needs in the aftermath of a
crime. “RJ is primarily about establishing and maintaining a proper and peaceful
relationship.”
(Justice Murray Sinclair, 2012 National RJ Symposium)
Restorative justice provides an alternative which focuses less on punishment and custodial
sentences, and more on healing the relationships between the individuals and families and
the community. People who are diverted are typically first-time offenders, youth or are being
accused of less serious charges. People facing charges get referred to the program from
either police service; RCMP, Crown attorneys, or sometimes community members.
It further allows victims to tell their story, hold the offender accountable and identify what
--- Page 32 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 31
can be done to repair the harm if possible and allows offenders to tell their story, accept
responsibility for their actions and acknowledge the harm caused. It also allows the victim
and offender to reach some type of reconciliation if possible.
• Sentencing and Gladue
Gladue refers to a right that Aboriginal People have under section 718.2 (e) of the Criminal
Code. Gladue is also a sentencing principle which recognizes that Aboriginal Peoples face
racism and systemic discrimination in and out of the criminal law system, and attempts
to deal with the crisis of overrepresentation of Aboriginal Peoples in custody, to the
extent possible, through changing how judge’s sentence. Gladue instructs judges, when
sentencing or setting bail, to consider: “all available sanctions other than imprisonment
that are reasonable in the circumstances, with particular attention to the circumstances of
Aboriginal offenders.”
Gladue and other changes to the criminal code, give judges discretion to use sanctions
outside of the mainstream prisons for Aboriginal women and men when appropriate. In
most cases, diversion to community supervised justice programs, such as those under
the Aboriginal Justice Strategy, or conditional sentences are made use of for less serious
offences, and in some cases for those facing first time charges only.
The Gladue report is a pre-sentencing or bail hearing report, usually prepared by Gladue
caseworkers at the request of the judge, defense counsel or Crown Attorney. These
reports contain recommendations to the court about what an appropriate sentence might
be, and include information about the Aboriginal persons’ background such as: history
regarding residential schools, child welfare removal, physical or sexual abuse, underlying
developmental or health issues, such as FASD, anxiety, or substance use.
Gladue applies to all self-identified Aboriginal People: status and not, regardless of whether
they live in or outside of an Aboriginal community. Aboriginal People can waive their
Gladue rights. In March 2012, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that Gladue Principle also
applies to breaches of long-term supervision orders. The ruling stated that “failing to take
[Aboriginal] circumstances into account would violate the fundamental human rights of the
individual.
Additional Resources:
http://www.cba.org/CBA/cle/PDF/JUST13_Paper_Shields_GladuePrimer.pdf
• Mi’kmaq Legal Support Network
The Mi’kmaq Legal Support Network (MLSN) began operations in July 2002 under the
umbrella of The Confederacy of Mainland Mi’kmaq. Its purpose was/is to develop and
maintain a sustainable justice support system for all Mi’kmaq / Aboriginal people involved in
the Nova Scotia Criminal Justice System. The objectives of MLSN are as follows:
• To provide legal support services to all Mi’kmaq / Aboriginal people living in or
--- Page 33 ---
32 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
visiting Nova Scotia.
• To communicate with Mi’kmaq/Aboriginal organizations, communities, individuals,
identified key stakeholders, and Provincial and Federal Governments for the
improvement of the administration of justice for Mi’kmaq/Aboriginal people.
• To research and develop justice programming which will initiate change for the
betterment of all parties. To promote and create justice programs which will meet
the changing and growing needs of Mi’kmaq / Aboriginal people living in or
visiting Nova Scotia.
• To develop a network among Mi’kmaq/First Nations, justice forums and mainstream
justice programs. To decrease the percentage of repeat offences and the number
of First Nations people going through the criminal justice system.
The vision of the MLSN is to provide Mi’kmaq/First Nation people with autonomy and
control over their justice support system in a time frame determined by the Mi’kmaq/First
Nation people and their leadership. The short-term direction was to develop a sustainable
justice support system that would address the inequities experienced by Mi’kmaq/First
Nation peoples within the mainstream justice system and build strong partnerships will all
levels of government. The vision of MLSN provides for a short and long term goals towards
creating a “sustainable justice support system” that not only addresses current inequities
within the mainstream justice system, but also one that reflects the goals and aspirations of
the Mi’kmaq First Nation people in Nova Scotia, as a result of one of the recommendations
of the Marshall Inquiry.
The following programs are administered and managed by MLSN:
• Mi’kmaq Court Worker Program
• Mi’kmaq Customary Law Program
• Mi’kmaq Victim Support Services
• Gladue Reports
• Mi’kmaq Bail Supervision
• Mi’kmaq Healing Court – Wagmatcook
Additional Resources:
https://cplc2018.files.wordpress.com/2018/09/mlsn.pdf
Section 6
Understanding Mi’kmaq Treaties in the Maritimes
• The treaty making period and the Covenant Chain of Treaties
Prior to European contact, the Mi’kmaq were an independent Nation with a sophisticated
(complex) system of government. They used diplomacy with other First Nations and they
were skilled negotiators. As members of the Wabanaki Confederacy (which included
the Mi’kmaq, Maliseet, Passamaquoddy, Penobscot and Abenaki tribes), they worked
--- Page 34 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 33
together to resolve various issues. The Mi’kmaq and the other members of the Wabanaki
Confederacy often held meetings. They recorded their agreements on a series of Wampum
Belts. The Wampum Belts were made of shells arranged in a special pattern. These belts
told the story of the Mi’kmaq and the treaty agreements they had with other First Nations.
The Wampum Belt was the responsibility of the Pu’tus who knew how to record and read the
messages of the belt.
Prior to Confederation in 1867, a number of treaties were signed between the Mi’kmaq
and the Colonial government. In the 1700’s, the Mi’kmaq signed a series of “Peace and
Friendship” treaties called the Covenant Chain of Treaties. These agreements recognized
friendly and respectful relations between the Mi’kmaq and the Europeans. They were based
on a shared understanding of mutual independence and trade. In exchange for their loyalty
to the Europeans, the treaties guaranteed that the Mi’kmaq would be able to continue
hunting and fishing in their territory. These treaties have been recognized by the Supreme
Court of Canada as legal and binding documents and have been referenced in many recent
court decisions.
Some of the well-known treaties include:
1725—Treaty with the Mi’kmaq and Maliseet signed in Boston. It was the first of several
treaties to be signed between the British and the Mi’kmaq to establish a peaceful alliance.
1726—The 1725 Treaty was ratified and confirmed by all the Mi’kmaw tribes in NS during
talks at Port Royal. This was the first of what is now known as the Treaties of Peace and
Friendship.
1728—Further ratification of the 1725 Treaty.
1749—Treaty signed with the Aboriginal peoples at Chebucto and St. Johns River renewing
the Treaty of 1725.
1752—The Treaty of 1752, signed by Jean Baptiste Cope and Governor Hopson of Nova
Scotia, made peace and promised hunting, fishing and trading rights.
1753—Ratification of the Treaty of 1752.
1760/61—Treaties of Peace and Friendship were made by the Governor of Nova Scotia with
Mi’kmaq, Maliseet, and Passamaquoddy communities. They include the rights to harvest fish,
wildlife, wild fruit and berries to support a moderate livelihood.
1762—Belcher’s Proclamation described the British intention to protect the just rights of the
Mi’kmaq to their land.
1763—The Royal Proclamation of 1763 is a complicated document that reserved large areas
of land in North America as Indian hunting grounds and set out a process for cession and
purchase of Indian lands.
--- Page 35 ---
34 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
It should be noted that the treaties were written in English and the Mi’kmaq were not
fluent in that language at the time they signed them. This meant that they were open to
interpretation. Many Mi’kmaq recalled other spoken agreements and ceremonies with the
Europeans. They also considered these agreements to be like treaties. There are very few
records of these ceremonies and spoken agreements in existence today. Although there are
no written records of the treaty discussions the most significant aspect of this relationship
are the ceremonies surrounding the treaty discussion. There were many discussions
and deliberations that were significant in the signing of the treaty. The oral history of the
Mi’kmaq and the ceremonies surrounding the signing of the Treaties made up parts of the
treaty and the Mi’kmaq understanding of that relationship.
Mi’kmaq Case Law
R. v. Sylliboy, 1928
Mi’kmaq Grand Chief Gabriel Sylliboy is believed to be the first to use the 1752 Peace and
Friendship Treaty to fight for Canada’s recognition of treaty rights. In his court case, R. v.
Sylliboy (1928), he argued that the 1752 treaty protected his rights to hunt and fish, but he
lost the case and was subsequently convicted.
In 1927, Gabriel Sylliboy, the first elected Grand Chief of the Mi’kmaq Grand Council
(in 1918), was arrested for hunting and possessing pelts out of season while off his
Whycocomagh reserve. While Sylliboy argued that he had Indigenous right to hunt and fish
on the land, he was convicted of these charges in Magistrate’s Court under Nova Scotia’s
Lands and Forests Act.
In R. V. Sylliboy, Chief Sylliboy appealed the ruling in a County Court in July 1928, using
treaty rights as a defence. He argued that the 1752 Peace and Friendship Treaty signed
between the Crown and Mi’kmaq chief Jean Baptiste Cope recognized the right of his
people to freely hunt and fish on traditional territories. As the treaty states, “It is agreed
that the said Tribe of Indians shall not be hindered from, but have free liberty of Hunting &
Fishing as usual.” Sylliboy and five members of the Mi’kmaq nation — Joe Christmas, Andrew
Alec, Andrew Bernard, Francis Gould and Ben Christmas — testified at the trial, supporting
the hunting rights and practices of their people.
Judge George Patterson explored aspects of Mi’kmaq treaty rights as they related to the
case but ruled that the conviction stood. According to Patterson, the Mi’kmaq “were never
regarded as an independent power” and therefore, could not have entered into a treaty with
the Crown. Moreover, Patterson concluded that Governor Hopson, who signed the 1752
treaty with the Mi’kmaq, did not have the authority to make such an agreement.
• R. v. Isaac (1975)
In 1975, Stephen Isaac of Chapel Island First Nation was found guilty of hunting “off”
reserve lands. Later, in his appeal, the conviction was quashed at the Supreme Court level.
The reversal was contained in a decision brought down by the Nova Scotia Supreme
Court and delivered by Chief Justice MacKeigan. In the judgment which found in favor
--- Page 36 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 35
of an appeal. Stephen Isaac had been charged under section 150(1) of the Nova Scotia
Lands and Forest Act and was found guilty in Magistrates Court. The decision by Nova
Scotia Supreme Court Appeal Division allowed in favor of Isaac’s appeal and quashed his
conviction. This decision was also based on the Royal Proclamation of 1763. In effect in 1975,
the Royal Proclamation was validated by the Nova Scotia Supreme Court, meaning that
hunting and fishing rights still existed for Mi’kmaq in Cape Breton
• R. v. Simon (1985)
In 1981, James Simon of the Mi’kmaq nation was convicted, under Nova Scotia’s Land and
Forests Act, for possession of a rifle and shotgun cartridges. The Court of Appeal upheld the
judge’s ruling that the Treaty of 1752 did not exempt Simon from provisions of the provincial
Lands and Forests Act.
The Simon Case went to the Supreme Court of Canada in 1985. Simon argued that the
right to hunt, as set out in the Treaty of 1752, combined with section 88 of the Indian Act,
offered his people immunity from prosecution under the provincial act. Section 88 states
that although provincial laws of general application apply to Indigenous peoples in Canada,
these are subject to the terms of any treaty.
In its unanimous judgment on the case, the court ruled that, based on the 1752 treaty, Simon
had the right to hunt for food anywhere in Mi’kmaq country. This right was not absolute; it
had to include “reasonably incidental activities” such as travelling with necessary equipment
to the hunting grounds and safe ownership of a hunting rifle and ammunition. Despite
these limitations, the court’s ruling vindicated Simon and the Treaty of 1752 remains in effect.
• R. v. Marshall (1999)
The single most important treaty fishing rights case is R. v. Marshall (1999), a case involving
the interpretation of an eighteenth-century treaty between the British and the Mi’kmaq
on the Atlantic coast. The treaty text stipulated that the Mi’kmaq would only trade at
British trading posts. It did not mention fishing, but the SCC, after reviewing an extensive
historical record and expert historical testimony, ruled that, in the context of a series of
peace and friendship treaties, the Mi’kmaq had treaty rights to trade fish for “necessaries.”
Justice Binnie, writing for the majority, concluded “the treaty rights are limited to securing
‘necessaries’ (which I construe in the modern context, as equivalent to a moderate
livelihood), and do not extend to an open-ended accumulation of wealth.” Elsewhere he
characterized the treaty as securing “the right of the Mi’kmaq people to continue to provide
for their own sustenance by taking the products of their hunting, fishing and other gathering
activities, and trading for what in 1760 was termed ‘necessaries’.”
Two months after releasing its decision in Marshall, the SCC issued a second set of reasons
when it denied an application from the commercial fishing fleet for a rehearing of the case.
In Marshall II the court emphasized the federal government’s power to regulate the Mi’kmaq
treaty right.
In reiterating the federal government’s capacity to regulate the fishery and infringe treaty
rights, the SCC imported to the treaty rights context the objectives that might justify
--- Page 37 ---
36 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
infringing an Aboriginal right to a commercial fishery. As a result, the treaty right, which the
SCC found was limited to trade for sustenance or to support a moderate livelihood, was also
subject to the capacity of the government to infringe that right for a broad range of social
policy objectives.
The Marshall decision, and the fact that Mi’kmaq fishers immediately began to fish for
lobster during a closed season in exercise of their treaty right, provoked an outcry among
non-Aboriginal fishers. They called on Fisheries Canada to stop the fishing and when the
department refused to intervene they destroyed Mi’kmaq fish traps and other property.
Fisheries Canada eventually did intervene, prompting a much-publicized confrontation
between one Mi’kmaq community and federal authorities. However, by March 2001,
Fisheries Canada concluded interim agreements with most First Nations affected by the
Marshall decision. Under a program known as the Marshall Response Initiative, these
agreements were later replaced with longer-term agreements in which, between 2000
and 2007, Fisheries Canada spent almost $600 million to provide eligible First Nations
with communal commercial licenses (acquired from commercial fishers under a voluntary
retirement program), fishing vessels, and training.
• Denny, Paul, Sylliboy (1990)
Three Mi’kmaw were charged with various fishing offences. Denny was charged with fishing
salmon with a net without a license and illegal possession of salmon after he netted salmon
off the mouth of a stream entering Bras d’Or Lake just outside his reserve. Paul was charged
with fishing cod without a license in the same place. Sylliboy was charged with fishing
salmon with a snare on a river outside a reserve. They were convicted and appealed.
The Nova Scotia Supreme Court, Appeal Division, allowed the appeals and acquitted the
accused. The court held that in Nova Scotia, Mi’kmaq have a right to fish for food off reserve
in priority to all other uses provided there is a surplus after conservation needs, which were
paramount.
• Sappier Grey (2006)
The three respondents (two Maliseet and One Mi’kmaq) were charged with unlawful
possession and cutting of Crown timber. They all admitted to the facts but all argued in
defence that they possessed an aboriginal right to harvest timber for personal use, with
Sappier and Grey also arguing they had a treaty right. The aboriginal right was found to
exist in the lower courts, which the Crown appealed.
The claimed specific aboriginal right was the right to harvest timber for personal use.
However, there was very little evidence to support that and they could not prove the
importance of the harvest of the trees, aboriginal rights exist in practices, customs or
traditions and not the resource itself.
The judge stated that culture really meant the pre-contact way of life, including means
of survival. In this case, the fact that harvesting wood was done for survival purposed is
--- Page 38 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 37
sufficient to make it an integral part of the culture. It was clear that the regulation infringed
the aboriginal right and the Crown made no argument for extinguishment or justification,
therefore the appeal was dismissed.
Mi’kmaw Child Welfare
Nova Scotia shares a common national history with other provinces with respect to the
development of First Nations child welfare. Residential schools served as the primary
mechanism of First Nations child welfare in Canada between 1879 and 1946 (Milloy,
1999). During this period, the Canadian government’s policy was to attempt to assimilate
Aboriginal peoples into Canadian society by separating Aboriginal children from their
families and placing them in residential schools. In 1920, amendment to the Indian Act
made attendance at designated state sponsored (day, residential, institutional) schools
mandatory for all children “between the ages of seven and fifteen years”.
In 1951, the introduction of Section 88 to the Indian Act made “all laws of general
application from time to time in force in any province applicable to and in respect of Indians
in the province” (Section 88 made it possible to enforce provincial child welfare legislation
on-reserve.). For the first time provincial child welfare authorities began to apprehend
Aboriginal children living on-reserve.
Additional Resources:
https://cwrp.ca/information-sheet/first-nations-child-welfare-nova-scotia-2011
Mi’kmaq Family and Children’s Services
MFCS Agency is a registered charitable organization operating with full delegation by the
Mi’kmaw Chiefs and the Provincial Department of Community Services since 1990.
The Agency delivers child welfare services to approximately 13,000 Mi’kmaw community
members living on the 13 Nova Scotia Bands which have 23 inhabited Reserves. These
are located throughout the province and represent a mixture of urban, rural and isolated
communities. Within their realities of our human and fiscal resources, we also provide
support and consultation to off-reserve Mi’kmaw and other First Nation individuals and
families and to those agencies working with them.
The Agency is governed through a Board of Directors comprised of the 13 Chiefs of the
Nova Scotia Bands and a representative of the Nova Scotia Native Women’s Association. The
agency serves all on reserve families and children and is governed by the provincial child
welfare legislation.
Additional Resources:
http://mfcsns.ca/
--- Page 39 ---
38 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
• Missing and murdered Indigenous Women
The National Inquiry heard from international law and Indigenous law expert witnesses, and
learned that Canada is in breach of both domestic and international obligations with respect
to its failures and harmful actions toward Indigenous women and children. Canada has
been told to clean up its act by United Nations tribunals and special rapporteurs repeatedly,
with little response. The National Inquiry is purported to be Canada’s answer and will
provide evidence and recommendations to provide meaningful action on this epidemic
of the number of missing and murdered Indigenous women in this country. This Inquiry
completed its report in April 2019.
Additional Resources:
https://www.mmiwg-ffada.ca/
http://www.redressproject.org/
• Idle No More
Idle No More has quickly become one of the largest Indigenous mass movements in
Canadian history – sparking hundreds of teach-ins, rallies, and protests across Turtle Island
and beyond. What began as a series of teach-ins throughout Saskatchewan to protest
impending parliamentary bills that will erode Indigenous sovereignty and environmental
protections, has now changed the social and political landscape of Canada.
Additional Resources:
http://www.idlenomore.ca/story
• Jordan’s Principle
Jordan’s Principle is a child-first principle named in memory of Jordan River Anderson, a
First Nations child from Norway House Cree Nation in Manitoba. Born with complex medical
needs, Jordan spent more than two years unnecessarily in hospital while the Province of
Manitoba and the federal government argued over who should pay for his at home care.
Jordan died in the hospital at the age of five years old, never having spent a day in his family
home. Jordan’s Principle aims to make sure First Nations children can access all public
services in a way that is reflective of their distinct cultural needs, takes full account of the
historical disadvantage linked to colonization, and without experiencing any service denials,
delays or disruptions because they are First Nations.
Additional Resources:
https://fncaringsociety.com/jordans-principle
--- Page 40 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 39
Section 7
Mi’kmaq Change Makers and Upstanders
• Grand Chief John Denny
John Denny Jr. was the last hereditary grand chief of the Mi’kmaq Nation, from
1881 to 1918. The grand chief is a traditional, unpaid post as senior statesman
and spiritual leader of all Mi’kmaq communities. It was traditionally passed on
from father to eldest son.
• Grand Chief Gabriel Sylliboy
Gabriel Sylliboy (8 August 1874 – March 4, 1964) was the first Mi’kmaq elected
as Grand Chief (1919) and the first to fight for the recognition by the state of
Canada of the treaties between the government and the First Nations people;
however, the courts found him guilty. Grand Chief Sylliboy was recently
exonerated by the province of Nova Scotia
• Grand Chief Donald Marshall
Donald Joseph Marshall Sr. (May 28, 1925 - August 25, 1991) was a Grand
Chief of the Mi’kmaq who lived at Membertou First Nation near Sydney, Nova
Scotia. He served as Grand Chief for 27 years from 1964 until his death in
1991.
• Grand Chief Ben Sylliboy
Benjamin Sylliboy (March 2, 1941 – November 30, 2017) was a Grand Chief of
the Mi’kmaq who lived at the We’koqma’q first nation in Cape Breton, Nova
Scotia, Canada. He served as Grand Chief for 25 years from 1992 until his
death in 2017.
• Grand Chief Norman Sylliboy
Norman Sylliboy has been a hereditary keptin, or captain, of the Grand
Council for years. In 2019, Normal Sylliboy was selected as Grand Chief; 101
years after his grandfather, Gabriel Sylliboy, was elected.
• Alexander Denny, Grand Captain
In 1966, Alex Denny was appointed the lifelong role of Kji-keptin of the
Sante’Mawiomi or Grand Captain of the Grand Council, an extremely
honourable achievement. He was chosen for this role by the elders at the time.
Shortly after, in 1969, he joined forces with Joe B. Marshall, Noel Doucette,
Greg Johnson and Stan Johnson and together they formed the Union of Nova
Scotia Indians (UNSI), where he served two separate terms as president, 1974-
1976 and 1992-1995.
• Murdena Marshall and Albert Marshall
o In October 2009, Albert and his wife Murdena were awarded Honorary
Doctorates of Letters by Cape Breton University for their work which seeks
the preservation, understanding, and promotion of cultural beliefs and
practices among all Mi’kmaw communities. Albert and the late Murdena
Marshall are highly respected and Elders of the Mi’kmaw Nation; Albert lives
in Eskasoni First Nation Murdena was the First Mi’kmaq to obtain a Master’s
in Education from Harvard University in the 1980’s and was instrumental in
the development of the Mi’kmaq Studies Program at Cape Breton University.
Both Albert and Murdena brought forward Etuaptmumk / Two-Eyed Seeing
--- Page 41 ---
40 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
as a Guiding Principle for Integrative Science and encourages its awareness
across Canada and beyond. Albert is currently the Elder for the Unama’ki
Institute of Natural Resources.
• Chief Noel Doucette
Chief Noel Doucette (1938 – 1996), a dedicated man and founding president
of the Union of Nova Scotia Indians. In 1954 Noel joined the RCAF, serving
until 1964 at various posts across Canada. During that time, on October 28,
1958, he married Jean Doris Johnson of Chapel Island. Over the years they
became the proud parents of 12 children. Upon his release from the service,
they returned to their home community in Chapel Island, of which community
he was chief for several terms. Chief Doucette was also instrumental in the
formation of the Mi’kmaw Kina’matnewey and the enactment of the Mi’kmaq
Education Act.
• Mary Ellen Pierro (1962)
Mary Ellen Pierro, the first woman to be elected as Chief, in Wagmatcook First
Nation. Mary Ellen passed away on June 30th of 1970.
• Dr. Bernie Francis
Bernie Francis grew up on the Maupeltu (Membertou) First Nation community
in Cape Breton, NS. From 1970-1974, he worked as the Director of the
Court Worker Program for the federal court system. After leaving the court
system, Bernie began his training in linguistics with linguist Doug Smith from
the University of Toronto. Bernie completed that training in 1980, having
developed a new orthography of the Mi’kmaw language with Professor Smith.
The Smith/Francis orthography is now officially recognized by the Mi’kmaw
chiefs in Nova Scotia, as well as by the Canada-Nova Scotia-Mi’kmaq Tripartite
Forum.
• Joe B. Marshall
Joe B Marshall obtained a Bachelor of Laws Degree in 1993, an Order of
Nova Scotia in 2011 and an Order of Canada in 2014. He is a Senior Mi’kmaq
Advisor to the Mi’kmaq Rights Initiative since 2004. Joe guides the Mi’kmaq
and the Assembly of Nova Scotia Mi’kmaq Chiefs as they proceed through the
negotiation of aboriginal and treaty rights with the Province of Nova Scotia
and the federal government. Joe was the past the Executive Director of the
Union of Nova Scotia Indians (UNSI) since 1996 and is one of its founding
members. Mr. Marshall is currently one of the lead negotiators for the Mi’kmaq
Rights Initiative in Nova Scotia.
• Viola Robinson
Viola Robinson is a Mi’kmaq woman who was born and raised in Nova Scotia.
She attended the Indian Day School at Shubenacadie Reserve (Indian Brook).
While she is best known as the founding and long time president of the Native
Council of Nova Scotia as well as the Native Council of Canada, her other
achievements are numerous. She was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Law
Degree from Dalhousie University in 1990. She served as a Commissioner
with the Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples. She completed a law
degree at Dalhousie Law School in May 1998. She is a current board member
of the Aboriginal Healing Foundation. She is the Mi’kmaq co/chair of the
Justice Tri-partite Committee of Nova Scotia. She has been a Senior Mi’kmaq
--- Page 42 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 41
Advisor on the Negotiations Team with the Mi’kmaq Rights Initiative in Nova
Scotia and most recently been appointed by the Chiefs of Nova Scotia as the
Chief Lead Negotiator for this Negotiation team
• Daniel Paul
Daniel N. Paul, (born 1938) is a Mi’kmaq Elder, author, columnist, and human
rights activist. Paul is perhaps best known as the author of the book We Were
Not the Savages. Paul asserts that this book is the first such history ever written
by a First Nation citizen. Among his many awards, Paul has been conferred
with the Order of Canada (2005) and the Order of Nova Scotia (2002). Mr.
Paul received an honorary Law Degree from Dalhousie University in 2013 and
is the Recipient of the Grand Chief Donald Marshall Memorial Elder Award in
2007.
• Helen Martin
o Helen Martin was the daughter of Chief Ben Christmas and Jane Christmas
(Denny) of the Membertou Mi’kmaq community. She was a founding member
and elected the first president of the association in 1972, a position which she
held for many years. Helen was an individual that was held in high esteem by
her community and continues to be so today. Helen died in 1993.
• Lillian Marshall
o Lillian Marshall was a highly respected and much loved Elder of the Mi’kmaw
Nation; she lived in Potlotek (Chapel Island) in Unama’ki, Nova Scotia. She
devoted her worklife to Aboriginal education and worked within a small,
dynamic team in her home community to develop innovative learning and
educational materials. Lillian had written several books, developed language
CDs, and created children’s stories and games. In June 2010, she was
presented with a Lifetime Achievement Award for preservation of Mi’kmaw
Language and Culture at the Potlotek Community Awards Banquet. Ms. Lilly as
she was lovingly referred to as passed away in 2018.
• Noel Marshall
Noel Marshall was born in 1905 in Potlotek and was the son of Thomas
Marshall and Mary (Alex) Marshall. Noel was a well-respected Mi’kmaq elder,
a community leader and a Captain with the Mi’kmaq Grand Council for many
years. Noel was married to Annie (Battiste) Marshall and they lived most of
their life in Potlotek, where they raised their children. Noel’s father, Thomas,
was also a Captain of the Grand Council and a former Chief of the community
of Potlotek. It was from his father that Noel gained much of his knowledge
of the Grand Council as he was extremely knowledgeable of the role of the
Grand Council and the annual St. Anne’s Mission. Noel was also well versed in
Mi’kmaq prayers and hymns. Noel Marshall died in 1984.
• Dr. Peter Christmas
Peter Christmas was one of the first Mi’kmaw people to obtain a Bachelor
of Education degree. At that time, he was a principal at a Nova Scotia
high school. Upon receiving his degree, in the 1960’s Christmas had to
enfranchise, meaning terminating his Native status, and was no longer
considered Mi’kmaw under Canadian Law.
• Dr. Elsie Basque
o Elsie Basque, was born to Margaret Labrador and Joe Charles at Hectanooga,
--- Page 43 ---
42 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
Digby County, on May 12, 1916. She was the first Mi’kmaq to earn a teacher’s
certificate from the Provincial Normal College in Truro. She also became an
advocate for issues affecting the elderly in the American Indian community.
Mrs. Charles Basque wrote a report on those challenges in 1974 and it was
sent as a position paper to the U.S. Senate. While she appreciates the honour
of being named to the Order of Canada, she said her greatest satisfaction
came from her students. She recounted a 1993 reunion of students she had
taught in Indian Brook between 1939 and 1947.
• Bernard Christmas
Bernard Christmas graduated from Osgoode Hall Law School in 1991 and
joined the Bar in 1993 in Ontario. Bernard was the first Mi’kmaq to become a
lawyer in Canada.
• Donald Marshall Jr.
o Donald Marshall Jr., Mi’kmaq leader, Indigenous activist, wrongly convicted
of murder (born 13 September 1953 in Sydney, NS; died 6 August 2009
in Sydney, NS). ... He was the first high-profile victim of a wrongful murder
conviction to have it overturned, paving the way for others. Mr. Marshall is
also a hero in the battle against racism toward aboriginals in this country. He
spent six years fighting discrimination in the courts to challenge the federal
government’s denial of the historic treaty rights granted to his people by the
British Crown in 1760, a case that went all the way to the Supreme Court of
Canada.
• Sister Dorothy Moore
Sister Dorothy Moore, from Membertou First Nation, entered the
Congregation of Sisters of St. Martha of Antigonish shortly after graduating
high school, and became the first Mi’kmaw Religious Sister in Nova Scotia.
Sister Dorothy, as she is affectionately known, has dedicated much of her
life to education. She received her teaching certificate from the Nova Scotia
Teachers College, bachelor’s degrees (both Arts and Education) from St.
Francis Xavier University, and an M.Ed. from Mount Saint Vincent University.
Her contributions to the province have been recognized by both the Order
of Nova Scotia (2003) and Order of Canada (2005). Sister Dorothy received
honorary doctorate degrees from Mount Saint Vincent University, Cape Breton
University (previously the University College of Cape Breton), and Saint Mary’s
University and has made a significant impact on Native Studies in Nova Scotia.
• Rita Joe
Rita Joe a Mi’kmaq Poet born on March 15, 1932 in Whycocomagh, NS; died
20 March 2007. Often referred to as the poet laureate of the Mi’kmaq people,
Rita Joe wrote powerful poetry that spoke about Indigenous identity and
the legacy of residential schools in Canada. Her works continue to influence
Indigenous and non-Indigenous writers and artists alike. Rita Joe was the
author of several books of poetry and one of her books titled: “I Lost my Talk”;
is most famous for her experience at the Shubenacadie Indian Residential
School.
• Isabelle Knockwood
o Isabelle Knockwood, born in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, attended the Indian
Residential School in Shubenacadie from 1936 to 1947. She is the mother of
--- Page 44 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 43
six children and has fourteen grandchildren. At a special Sunrise Ceremony
at Indian Brook, Isabelle was given her Spirit name, Maqmikewe’skw, which
means Mother Earth. Isabelle is most known for her book titled; “Out of the
Depths” an account of her experience at the Shubenacadie Indian Residential
School.
• Nora Bernard
o Nora Bernard (September 22, 1935 – December 26, 2007) was a Canadian
Mi’kmaq activist who sought compensation for survivors of the Canadian
Indian residential school system. She was directly responsible for what
became the largest class-action lawsuit in Canadian history, representing an
estimated 79,000 survivors; the Canadian government settled the lawsuit in
2005 for upwards of 5 billion dollars.
• Senator Dan Christmas
Mr. Christmas has served in various leadership positions in the Mi’kmaw
Nation of Nova Scotia. After serving five years as the Band Manager for the
Community of Membertou, Mr. Christmas worked for the Union of Nova
Scotia Indians for 15 years - the last 10 as its Director. He was actively involved
in the recognition and implementation of Mi’kmaw aboriginal and treaty
rights in Nova Scotia. From 1997 to 2016, Mr. Christmas held the position
as Senior Advisor with Membertou and had assisted the Chief and Council
and its Management Team with the day-to-day operations of the Community
of Membertou. Dan also served as elected councillor for Membertou for 18
years. Mr. Christmas has been active in a number of international, national,
provincial and local agencies in a wide range of fields including aboriginal
& treaty rights, justice, policing, education, health care, human rights, adult
training, business development and the environment. In 2005, Mr. Christmas
was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Dalhousie University
and an honorary diploma from the Nova Scotia Community College in 2016. In
2008, he was the recipient of the National Excellence in Aboriginal Leadership
Award from the Aboriginal Financial Officers Association of Canada. In
December 2016, Mr. Christmas was sworn in as an Independent Senator for
Nova Scotia. Senator Christmas is the first Mi’kmaw senator to be appointed to
the Senate of Canada.
• Dr. Robert Johnson Jr.
In 1998 Robert was the first Mi’kmaq person to receive a degree in Medicine
from Dalhousie. . After graduating from Dalhousie, Dr. Johnson embarked
on residency training in family medicine at the University of British Columbia
(Prince George. He returned to Nova Scotia for a time, practicing emergency
medicine at the Dartmouth General Hospital, then returned to the West Coast
to pursue studies in emergency medicine and anesthesiology at UBC..
• Eleanor Johnson
Eleanor Johnson, professor, advocate and the first person to write a master’s
thesis completely in the Mi’kmaw language. The thesis titled “Mi’kmaq” was
written in 1992 as a requirement of the Master of Atlantic Canada Studies
at Saint Mary’s University. Eleanor inspires Mi’kmaw students to excel in
institutions while maintaining the Mi’kmaw language.
--- Page 45 ---
44 High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education
• Judge Cathy Benton
Catherine Benton is the first Mi’kmaw woman judge in Nova Scotia. Benton, a
lawyer with Nova Scotia Legal Aid, was appointed to the provincial and family
court on January 23. She is the second Mi’kmaq and the third Indigenous
person to be appointed to the bench in Nova Scotia.
• Everett Sanipass
Everett Sanipass (born February 13, 1968) is a Canadian retired ice hockey
forward. Sanipass was born in Elsipogtog First Nation, New Brunswick.
Sanipass is the first Native Canadian to be inducted into the New Brunswick
Sports Hall of Fame. Sanipass began his National Hockey League career with
the Chicago Blackhawks in 1987 after being drafted 14th overall in the 1986
NHL Entry Draft. His indigenous heritage as a Mi’kmaq caused him to face
racism early in his hockey career since he was prohibited from playing on off-
reserve teams.
• Mary Ann Metallic
Mary Ann Metallic has done exemplary work to revitalize the Mi’gmaq
language in her home community of Listuguj, Quebec. Her passion for
Mi’kmaq has led to the development of a successful teaching program, and
her work with linguists has resulted in significant contributions to language
documentation and linguistic theory.
• Glen Gould
o Glen Gould (born June 6, 1972) is an Aboriginal Canadian actor, director and
producer of Mi’kmaq and Italian descent. Originally from Membertou First
Nation but resides in North Bay Ontario.
• Ursula Johnson
Ursula Johnson (born 1980) is a multidisciplinary Mi’kmaq artist based
in Halifax Nova Scotia. Her work combines the Mi’kmaq tradition of
basket weaving with sculpture, installation, and performance art. In all its
manifestations her work educates viewers about issues of identity, colonial
history, tradition, and cultural practice. In 2017, she won the Sobey’s Art
Award.
• Allan Sylliboy
An established Mi’kmaq artist, Alan Sylliboy’s work is influenced by the
indigenous Mi’kmaq rock drawing and quill weaving traditions. Working in
acrylic and mixed media, Alan creates vibrantly coloured images exploring
the themes of family, searching, spirituality, struggle, and strength. The use of
layering symbols and mark making creates depth and texture in Alan’s work.
• Arlene ‘Dozay’ Christmas
October 31, 1954 - November 21, 2019. Dozay was truly a one-of-a-kind
person. She loved the created world and all that belonged to it. Illustrator
Dozay grew up on the Tobique First Nation in New Brunswick. She attended
the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design and has displayed her artwork at
galleries and exhibits across the Maritimes, Ontario and the United States.
• Loretta Gould
Mi’kmaq Artist Loretta Gould From the East Coast. Her art is Spiritual, and it
said it’s a dream to see bright, beautiful colors. She is self-taught and has been
creating and exhibiting her work ever since. Loretta’s dream is to share her art
--- Page 46 ---
High School Supplementary Resource Material for Treaty Education 45
around the world. It is a way to get her spiritual feelings on canvas. She was
born in Cape Breton and raised in We’koqma’q First Nation. Loretta is currently
working on a book for all the stories that go with each painting.
• Mise’l Joe
Mise’l Joe was born in Miawpukek into a strong Mi’kmaq family, both his
grandfather and uncle held the office of hereditary Saqamaw. Misel has
been educated in all the Mi’kmaq ways and traditions. Morris Lewis, the first
appointed Chief in Newfoundland by the Grand Chief in Mi’kmaq territory,
was Misel’s great, great uncle. Mise’l is the author of a book titled “Muinji’j
Becomes a Man”.
• Stephen Augustine
Originally from Elsipogtog (Big Cove), N.B., Augustine is a hereditary chief
of the Signigtog region and a member of the Sante’ Mawi’omi (Grand
Council). He has served as curator of ethnology for the eastern Maritimes
at the Canadian Museum of Civilization in Ottawa since 1996. He received
his Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology and Political Science from St. Thomas
University and a Master of Arts in Canadian studies from Carleton University.
Augustine is currently the Associate Vice President of Indigenous Affairs and
Unama’ki College at Cape Breton University.
• Lindsay Marshall
Lindsay Marshall served as a Councillor, Chief and Band Manager of Potlotek
First Nation. Lindsay was also the Dean of Unama’ki College. Marshall,
a frequent contributor of poetry for important celebrations, Lindsay has
composed for, and read before, Queen Elizabeth II. His first book of poetry
was titled “Clay Pots and Bones”.
--- Page 47 ---
Produced by
===END===

===5. f Pocahontas Myth.doc.docx===

From: Powhatan Nation
http://www.powhatan.org/pocc.html


===END===

===5. g The Pocahontas Myth Answers.docx===
Name____________________
The Pocahontas Myth Questions:
 Why does the Powhatan Nation disagree with Disney’s portrayal of the Pocahontas Story?
The film distorts history beyond recognition.

What does the term Pocahontas mean?  What was her real name?
"Pocahontas" was a nickname, meaning "the naughty one" or "spoiled child". Her real name was Matoaka.

What did John Smith initially report happened when staying with the Powhatan people?  
The legend is that she saved a heroic John Smith from being clubbed to death by her father in 1607

Why is the Pocahontas incident highly unlikely?
The truth of the matter is that the first time John Smith told the story about this rescue was 17 years after it happened, and it was but one of three reported by the pretentious Smith that he was saved from death by a prominent woman. 

According to the true Pocahontas story, what happened to her when she was 17?
In 1612, at the age of 17, Pocahontas was treacherously taken prisoner by the English and was held hostage at Jamestown for over a year.

How was Pocahontas eventually released?
During her captivity, a 28-year-old widower named John Rolfe took a "special interest" in the attractive young prisoner. As a condition of her release, she agreed to marry Rolfe. 

What did Rolfe commercialize?
Tobacco

What was Pocahontas’ father’s name?
Chief Powhatan

What was Pocahontas also known as, once she married? 
Rebecca Rolfe

When and at what age did Pocahontas die?
Rolfe, his young wife, and their son set off for Virginia in March of 1617, but "Rebecca" had to be taken off the ship at Gravesend. She died there on March 21, 1617, at the age of 21 of either smallpox or poison.

Why did John Smith find it convenient to invent the story that he was rescued by Pocahontas?
It was only after her death and her fame in London society that Smith found it convenient to invent the yarn that she had rescued him. 

===END===

===5. h The Pocahontas Myth Questions.docx===
The Pocahontas Myth Questions:
 Why does the Powhatan Nation disagree with Disney’s portrayal of the Pocahontas Story?

What does the term Pocahontas mean?  What was her real name?

What did John Smith initially report happened when staying with the Powhatan people?  

Why is the Pocahontas incident highly unlikely?

According to the true Pocahontas story, what happened to her when she was 17?

How was Pocahontas eventually released?

What did Rolfe commercialize?

What was Pocahontas’ father’s name?

What was Pocahontas also known as, once she married? 

When and at what age did Pocahontas die?

Why did John Smith find it convenient to invent the story that he was rescued by Pocahontas?


===END===

===7. a First Nations in the News Today.docx===
First Nations in the News Today

https://www.thestar.com/politics/first-nations-dont-have-a-veto-over-nation-building-projects-mark-carneys-justice-minister-says/article_4af46b7d-033a-4fe4-b163-580623d53022.html

https://nationalpost.com/news/proposed-fast-tracking-of-national-projects-serious-threat-to-treaty-rights-afn-chief

https://www.ctvnews.ca/winnipeg/article/our-people-are-tired-first-nations-leaders-call-on-province-to-open-up-hotels-and-suspend-conferences-to-prioritize-evacuees/

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/new-brunswick/fredericton-high-school-powwow-teacher-email-clifford-cull-indigenous-chiefs-1.7212895

https://www.snnewswatch.com/local-news/first-nations-rally-against-bill-5-10747695 

https://news.gov.bc.ca/releases/2025MCM0025-000535

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/enbridge-sells-stake-in-westcoast-pipeline-to-first-nations-group-1.7535543

https://globalnews.ca/news/11209660/fsin-says-first-nations-were-left-out-of-the-first-ministers-meeting-in-saskatoon/ 

https://www.cbc.ca/news/indigenous/rcmp-crcc-reporter-apology-1.7466872

https://www.aptnnews.ca/featured/decades-after-the-siege-kanehsatake-and-kahnawake-demands-an-apology/ 

https://www.aptnnews.ca/national-news/anishinabek-nation-demands-action-on-2007-ipperwash-inquiry-recommendations/

https://allthatsinteresting.com/wrongful-convictions/4 

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/nova-scotia/marshall-decision-25th-anniversary-1.7324627 

https://globalnews.ca/video/11105758/first-nations-oppose-stanley-park-logging

https://www.ctvnews.ca/northern-ontario/article/northern-ont-first-nation-protests-after-ancestral-remains-found-during-excavation/ 

https://www.cbc.ca/cbcdocspov/features/for-50-years-pulp-mill-waste-has-contaminated-pictou-landing-first-nations 

https://www.fnha.ca/about/news-and-events/news/seeking-creative-first-nations-youth-artists-to-make-an-icon-for-our-new-harm-reduction-toolkit 

https://globalnews.ca/news/10685801/lawsuit-indigenous-woman-nova-scotia-meningitis-negligence/ 

https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/oct/06/joyce-echaquan-coroner-indigenous-systemic-racism-death

https://environmentaldefence.ca/2025/02/25/federal-review-of-massive-carbon-capture-project-needed/ 
===END===

===7. b In the News….docx===
									Name: _____________________    /50
In the News….

Read Twelve of the articles (or do research to find your own) and read the United Nations Declaration of indigenous Peoples.  Discuss with your group and complete the responses attached.  

 























Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  | 








 | 
















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 | 











 |  | 

















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  | 




 | 





















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 
















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 



















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 




















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 
















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 






















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 



















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 





















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 




















Number and Name of Article | Summarize the article in one or two sentences | What is the problem? | Which First Nations Rights are being Violated?  


 |  |  | 


















===END===

===7. c UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.pdf===
--- Page 1 ---
United Nations
Declaration on
the Rights of
Indigenous
Peoples
Designed by the Graphic Design Unit, Department of Public Information, United Nations United Nations
--- Page 2 ---
United Nations
Declaration on
the Rights of
Indigenous
Peoples
United Nations
--- Page 3 ---
Resolution adopted by the
General Assembly on 13 September 2007
[without reference to a Main Committee (A/61/L.67
and Add.1)]
61/295. United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples
The General Assembly,
Taking note of the recommendation of the
Human Rights Council contained in its
resolution 1/2 of 29 June 20061, by which the
Council adopted the text of the United Nations
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples,
Recalling its resolution 61/178 of 20 December
2006, by which it decided to defer consideration
of and action on the Declaration to allow time for
further consultations thereon, and also decided
to conclude its consideration before the end of
the sixty-first session of the General Assembly,
1 S ee Official Records of the General Assembly, Sixty-first Session,
Supplement No. 53 (A/61/53), part one, chap. II, sect. A.
1
--- Page 4 ---
Adopts the United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples as contained in the
annex to the present resolution.
107th plenary meeting
13 September 2007
Annex
United Nations Declaration
on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
The General Assembly,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the
Charter of the United Nations, and good faith
in the fulfilment of the obligations assumed by
States in accordance with the Charter,
Affirming that indigenous peoples are equal to all
other peoples, while recognizing the right of all
peoples to be different, to consider themselves
different, and to be respected as such,
Affirming also that all peoples contribute to the
diversity and richness of civilizations and cultures,
which constitute the common heritage of hu-
mankind,
2
--- Page 5 ---
Affirming further that all doctrines, policies and
practices based on or advocating superiority of
peoples or individuals on the basis of national
origin or racial, religious, ethnic or cultural differ-
ences are racist, scientifically false, legally invalid,
morally condemnable and socially unjust,
Reaffirming that indigenous peoples, in the exer-
cise of their rights, should be free from discrimi-
nation of any kind,
Concerned that indigenous peoples have suffered
from historic injustices as a result of, inter alia, their
colonization and dispossession of their lands, ter-
ritories and resources, thus preventing them from
exercising, in particular, their right to development
in accordance with their own needs and interests,
Recognizing the urgent need to respect and
promote the inherent rights of indigenous peo-
ples which derive from their political, economic
and social structures and from their cultures,
spiritual traditions, histories and philosophies,
especially their rights to their lands, territories
and resources,
Recognizing also the urgent need to respect
and promote the rights of indigenous peoples
3
--- Page 6 ---
affirmed in treaties, agreements and other con-
structive arrangements with States,
Welcoming the fact that indigenous peoples are
organizing themselves for political, economic,
social and cultural enhancement and in order to
bring to an end all forms of discrimination and op-
pression wherever they occur,
Convinced that control by indigenous peoples
over developments affecting them and their
lands, territories and resources will enable them
to maintain and strengthen their institutions, cul-
tures and traditions, and to promote their devel-
opment in accordance with their aspirations and
needs,
Recognizing that respect for indigenous knowl-
edge, cultures and traditional practices contrib-
utes to sustainable and equitable development
and proper management of the environment,
Emphasizing the contribution of the demilitariza-
tion of the lands and territories of indigenous
peoples to peace, economic and social progress
and development, understanding and friendly re-
lations among nations and peoples of the world,
4
--- Page 7 ---
Recognizing in particular the right of indigenous
families and communities to retain shared re-
sponsibility for the upbringing, training, educa-
tion and well-being of their children, consistent
with the rights of the child,
Considering that the rights affirmed in treaties,
agreements and other constructive arrange-
ments between States and indigenous peoples
are, in some situations, matters of international
concern, interest, responsibility and character,
Considering also that treaties, agreements and
other constructive arrangements, and the re-
lationship they represent, are the basis for a
strengthened partnership between indigenous
peoples and States,
Acknowledging that the Charter of the United
Nations, the International Covenant on Econom-
ic, Social and Cultural Rights2 and the Interna-
tional Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,2 as
well as the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action,3 affirm the fundamental importance of
the right to self-determination of all peoples, by
2 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
3 A/CONF.157/24 (Part I), chap. III.
5
--- Page 8 ---
virtue of which they freely determine their politi-
cal status and freely pursue their economic, social
and cultural development,
Bearing in mind that nothing in this Declaration
may be used to deny any peoples their right to
self-determination, exercised in conformity with
international law,
Convinced that the recognition of the rights of
indigenous peoples in this Declaration will en-
hance harmonious and cooperative relations be-
tween the State and indigenous peoples, based
on principles of justice, democracy, respect for
human rights, non-discrimination and good faith,
Encouraging States to comply with and effective-
ly implement all their obligations as they apply to
indigenous peoples under international instru-
ments, in particular those related to human rights,
in consultation and cooperation with the peoples
concerned,
Emphasizing that the United Nations has an
important and continuing role to play in pro-
moting and protecting the rights of indigenous
peoples,
6
--- Page 9 ---
Believing that this Declaration is a further important
step forward for the recognition, promotion and
protection of the rights and freedoms of indigenous
peoples and in the development of relevant
activities of the United Nations system in this field,
Recognizing and reaffirming that indigenous
individuals are entitled without discrimination to
all human rights recognized in international law,
and that indigenous peoples possess collective
rights which are indispensable for their existence,
well-being and integral development as peoples,
Recognizing that the situation of indigenous
peoples varies from region to region and from
country to country and that the significance of
national and regional particularities and various
historical and cultural backgrounds should be
taken into consideration,
Solemnly proclaims the following United Nations
Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples
as a standard of achievement to be pursued in a
spirit of partnership and mutual respect:
Article 1
Indigenous peoples have the right to the full en-
joyment, as a collective or as individuals, of all
7
--- Page 10 ---
human rights and fundamental freedoms as rec-
ognized in the Charter of the United Nations, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights4 and in-
ternational human rights law.
Article 2
Indigenous peoples and individuals are free and
equal to all other peoples and individuals and
have the right to be free from any kind of discrim-
ination, in the exercise of their rights, in particular
that based on their indigenous origin or identity.
Article 3
Indigenous peoples have the right to self-deter-
mination. By virtue of that right they freely deter-
mine their political status and freely pursue their
economic, social and cultural development.
Article 4
Indigenous peoples, in exercising their right to
self-determination, have the right to autonomy or
self-government in matters relating to their inter-
nal and local affairs, as well as ways and means for
financing their autonomous functions.
4 Resolution 217 A (III).
8
--- Page 11 ---
Article 5
Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain
and strengthen their distinct political, legal, eco-
nomic, social and cultural institutions, while re-
taining their right to participate fully, if they so
choose, in the political, economic, social and cul-
tural life of the State.
Article 6
Every indigenous individual has the right to a na-
tionality.
Article 7
1. Indigenous individuals have the rights to life,
physical and mental integrity, liberty and secu-
rity of person.
2. Indigenous peoples have the collective right to
live in freedom, peace and security as distinct
peoples and shall not be subjected to any act of
genocide or any other act of violence, including
forcibly removing children of the group to an-
other group.
9
--- Page 12 ---
Article 8
1. Indigenous peoples and individuals have the
right not to be subjected to forced assimilation
or destruction of their culture.
2. States shall provide effective mechanisms for
prevention of, and redress for:
(a) Any action which has the aim or effect of
depriving them of their integrity as distinct
peoples, or of their cultural values or ethnic
identities;
(b) Any action which has the aim or effect of
dispossessing them of their lands, territories
or resources;
(c) Any form of forced population transfer
which has the aim or effect of violating or
undermining any of their rights;
(d) Any form of forced assimilation or integra-
tion;
(e) Any form of propaganda designed to pro-
mote or incite racial or ethnic discrimination
directed against them.
10
--- Page 13 ---
Article 9
Indigenous peoples and individuals have the right
to belong to an indigenous community or nation,
in accordance with the traditions and customs of
the community or nation concerned. No discrim-
ination of any kind may arise from the exercise of
such a right.
Article 10
Indigenous peoples shall not be forcibly removed
from their lands or territories. No relocation shall
take place without the free, prior and informed
consent of the indigenous peoples concerned and
after agreement on just and fair compensation
and, where possible, with the option of return.
Article 11
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to practise
and revitalize their cultural traditions and cus-
toms. This includes the right to maintain, pro-
tect and develop the past, present and future
manifestations of their cultures, such as ar-
chaeological and historical sites, artefacts, de-
signs, ceremonies, technologies and visual and
performing arts and literature.
11
--- Page 14 ---
2. States shall provide redress through effective
mechanisms, which may include restitution,
developed in conjunction with indigenous
peoples, with respect to their cultural, intellec-
tual, religious and spiritual property taken with-
out their free, prior and informed consent or in
violation of their laws, traditions and customs.
Article 12
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to manifest,
practise, develop and teach their spiritual and
religious traditions, customs and ceremonies;
the right to maintain, protect, and have access
in privacy to their religious and cultural sites;
the right to the use and control of their ceremo-
nial objects; and the right to the repatriation of
their human remains.
2. States shall seek to enable the access and/or
repatriation of ceremonial objects and human
remains in their possession through fair, trans-
parent and effective mechanisms developed in
conjunction with indigenous peoples concerned.
Article 13
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to revitalize,
use, develop and transmit to future genera-
12
--- Page 15 ---
tions their histories, languages, oral traditions,
philosophies, writing systems and literatures,
and to designate and retain their own names for
communities, places and persons.
2. States shall take effective measures to ensure
that this right is protected and also to ensure
that indigenous peoples can understand and
be understood in political, legal and adminis-
trative proceedings, where necessary through
the provision of interpretation or by other ap-
propriate means.
Article 14
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to establish
and control their educational systems and in-
stitutions providing education in their own lan-
guages, in a manner appropriate to their cultur-
al methods of teaching and learning.
2. Indigenous individuals, particularly children,
have the right to all levels and forms of educa-
tion of the State without discrimination.
3. States shall, in conjunction with indigenous peo-
ples, take effective measures, in order for indige-
nous individuals, particularly children, including
13
--- Page 16 ---
those living outside their communities, to have
access, when possible, to an education in their
own culture and provided in their own language.
Article 15
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to the dig-
nity and diversity of their cultures, traditions,
histories and aspirations which shall be appro-
priately reflected in education and public infor-
mation.
2. States shall take effective measures, in
consultation and cooperation with the
indigenous peoples concerned, to combat
prejudice and eliminate discrimination and to
promote tolerance, understanding and good
relations among indigenous peoples and all
other segments of society.
Article 16
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to establish
their own media in their own languages and to
have access to all forms of non-indigenous me-
dia without discrimination.
2. States shall take effective measures to ensure
that State-owned media duly reflect indigenous
14
--- Page 17 ---
cultural diversity. States, without prejudice to
ensuring full freedom of expression, should en-
courage privately owned media to adequately
reflect indigenous cultural diversity.
Article 17
1. Indigenous individuals and peoples have the right
to enjoy fully all rights established under applica-
ble international and domestic labour law.
2. States shall in consultation and cooperation
with indigenous peoples take specific measures
to protect indigenous children from economic
exploitation and from performing any work that
is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the
child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s
health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or
social development, taking into account their
special vulnerability and the importance of ed-
ucation for their empowerment.
3. Indigenous individuals have the right not to be
subjected to any discriminatory conditions of
labour and, inter alia, employment or salary.
Article 18
Indigenous peoples have the right to participate
in decision-making in matters which would affect
15
--- Page 18 ---
their rights, through representatives chosen by
themselves in accordance with their own proce-
dures, as well as to maintain and develop their
own indigenous decision-making institutions.
Article 19
States shall consult and cooperate in good faith
with the indigenous peoples concerned through
their own representative institutions in order to
obtain their free, prior and informed consent be-
fore adopting and implementing legislative or ad-
ministrative measures that may affect them.
Article 20
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain
and develop their political, economic and social
systems or institutions, to be secure in the en-
joyment of their own means of subsistence and
development, and to engage freely in all their
traditional and other economic activities.
2. Indigenous peoples deprived of their means of
subsistence and development are entitled to
just and fair redress.
16
--- Page 19 ---
Article 21
1. Indigenous peoples have the right, without dis-
crimination, to the improvement of their eco-
nomic and social conditions, including, inter
alia, in the areas of education, employment, vo-
cational training and retraining, housing, sani-
tation, health and social security.
2. States shall take effective measures and, where
appropriate, special measures to ensure con-
tinuing improvement of their economic and
social conditions. Particular attention shall be
paid to the rights and special needs of indige-
nous elders, women, youth, children and per-
sons with disabilities.
Article 22
1. Particular attention shall be paid to the rights
and special needs of indigenous elders, wom-
en, youth, children and persons with disabilities
in the implementation of this Declaration.
2. States shall take measures, in conjunction with
indigenous peoples, to ensure that indigenous
women and children enjoy the full protection
and guarantees against all forms of violence
and discrimination.
17
--- Page 20 ---
Article 23
Indigenous peoples have the right to determine
and develop priorities and strategies for exer-
cising their right to development. In particular,
indigenous peoples have the right to be actively
involved in developing and determining health,
housing and other economic and social pro-
grammes affecting them and, as far as possible, to
administer such programmes through their own
institutions.
Article 24
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to their tra-
ditional medicines and to maintain their health
practices, including the conservation of their
vital medicinal plants, animals and minerals.
Indigenous individuals also have the right to
access, without any discrimination, to all social
and health services.
2. Indigenous individuals have an equal right to
the enjoyment of the highest attainable stan-
dard of physical and mental health. States
shall take the necessary steps with a view to
achieving progressively the full realization of
this right.
18
--- Page 21 ---
Article 25
Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain and
strengthen their distinctive spiritual relationship
with their traditionally owned or otherwise occu-
pied and used lands, territories, waters and coastal
seas and other resources and to uphold their re-
sponsibilities to future generations in this regard.
Article 26
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to the lands,
territories and resources which they have tradi-
tionally owned, occupied or otherwise used or
acquired.
2. Indigenous peoples have the right to own, use,
develop and control the lands, territories and
resources that they possess by reason of tra-
ditional ownership or other traditional occu-
pation or use, as well as those which they have
otherwise acquired.
3. States shall give legal recognition and protection
to these lands, territories and resources. Such
recognition shall be conducted with due respect
to the customs, traditions and land tenure sys-
tems of the indigenous peoples concerned.
19
--- Page 22 ---
Article 27
States shall establish and implement, in conjunc-
tion with indigenous peoples concerned, a fair,
independent, impartial, open and transparent
process, giving due recognition to indigenous
peoples’ laws, traditions, customs and land tenure
systems, to recognize and adjudicate the rights
of indigenous peoples pertaining to their lands,
territories and resources, including those which
were traditionally owned or otherwise occupied
or used. Indigenous peoples shall have the right
to participate in this process.
Article 28
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to redress,
by means that can include restitution or, when
this is not possible, just, fair and equitable
compensation, for the lands, territories and re-
sources which they have traditionally owned
or otherwise occupied or used, and which
have been confiscated, taken, occupied, used
or damaged without their free, prior and in-
formed consent.
2. Unless otherwise freely agreed upon by the
peoples concerned, compensation shall take
20
--- Page 23 ---
the form of lands, territories and resources equal
in quality, size and legal status or of monetary
compensation or other appropriate redress.
Article 29
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to the con-
servation and protection of the environment
and the productive capacity of their lands or
territories and resources. States shall establish
and implement assistance programmes for in-
digenous peoples for such conservation and
protection, without discrimination.
2. States shall take effective measures to ensure
that no storage or disposal of hazardous ma-
terials shall take place in the lands or territories
of indigenous peoples without their free, prior
and informed consent.
3. States shall also take effective measures to en-
sure, as needed, that programmes for moni-
toring, maintaining and restoring the health of
indigenous peoples, as developed and imple-
mented by the peoples affected by such mate-
rials, are duly implemented.
21
--- Page 24 ---
Article 30
1. Military activities shall not take place in the
lands or territories of indigenous peoples, un-
less justified by a relevant public interest or
otherwise freely agreed with or requested by
the indigenous peoples concerned.
2. States shall undertake effective consulta-
tions with the indigenous peoples concerned,
through appropriate procedures and in partic-
ular through their representative institutions,
prior to using their lands or territories for mili-
tary activities.
Article 31
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain,
control, protect and develop their cultural
heritage, traditional knowledge and tradition-
al cultural expressions, as well as the manifes-
tations of their sciences, technologies and cul-
tures, including human and genetic resources,
seeds, medicines, knowledge of the properties
of fauna and flora, oral traditions, literatures,
designs, sports and traditional games and vi-
sual and performing arts. They also have the
22
--- Page 25 ---
right to maintain, control, protect and develop
their intellectual property over such cultural
heritage, traditional knowledge, and tradition-
al cultural expressions.
2. In conjunction with indigenous peoples, States
shall take effective measures to recognize and
protect the exercise of these rights.
Article 32
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to determine
and develop priorities and strategies for the
development or use of their lands or territories
and other resources.
2. States shall consult and cooperate in good
faith with the indigenous peoples concerned
through their own representative institutions in
order to obtain their free and informed consent
prior to the approval of any project affecting
their lands or territories and other resources,
particularly in connection with the develop-
ment, utilization or exploitation of mineral, wa-
ter or other resources.
3. States shall provide effective mechanisms for
just and fair redress for any such activities, and
23
--- Page 26 ---
appropriate measures shall be taken to mitigate
adverse environmental, economic, social, cul-
tural or spiritual impact.
Article 33
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to deter-
mine their own identity or membership in ac-
cordance with their customs and traditions.
This does not impair the right of indigenous
individuals to obtain citizenship of the States
in which they live.
2. Indigenous peoples have the right to determine
the structures and to select the membership of
their institutions in accordance with their own
procedures.
Article 34
Indigenous peoples have the right to promote,
develop and maintain their institutional struc-
tures and their distinctive customs, spirituality,
traditions, procedures, practices and, in the cas-
es where they exist, juridical systems or customs,
in accordance with international human rights
standards.
24
--- Page 27 ---
Article 35
Indigenous peoples have the right to determine the
responsibilities of individuals to their communities.
Article 36
1. Indigenous peoples, in particular those divided
by international borders, have the right to
maintain and develop contacts, relations and
cooperation, including activities for spiritual,
cultural, political, economic and social
purposes, with their own members as well as
other peoples across borders.
2. States, in consultation and cooperation with
indigenous peoples, shall take effective mea-
sures to facilitate the exercise and ensure the
implementation of this right.
Article 37
1. Indigenous peoples have the right to the rec-
ognition, observance and enforcement of
treaties, agreements and other constructive
arrangements concluded with States or their
successors and to have States honour and re-
25
--- Page 28 ---
spect such treaties, agreements and other con-
structive arrangements.
2. Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted
as diminishing or eliminating the rights of in-
digenous peoples contained in treaties, agree-
ments and other constructive arrangements.
Article 38
States in consultation and cooperation with indig-
enous peoples, shall take the appropriate mea-
sures, including legislative measures, to achieve
the ends of this Declaration.
Article 39
Indigenous peoples have the right to have ac-
cess to financial and technical assistance from
States and through international cooperation,
for the enjoyment of the rights contained in this
Declaration.
Article 40
Indigenous peoples have the right to access to
and prompt decision through just and fair proce-
dures for the resolution of conflicts and disputes
with States or other parties, as well as to effective
26
--- Page 29 ---
remedies for all infringements of their individual
and collective rights. Such a decision shall give
due consideration to the customs, traditions,
rules and legal systems of the indigenous peoples
concerned and international human rights.
Article 41
The organs and specialized agencies of the United
Nations system and other intergovernmental
organizations shall contribute to the full
realization of the provisions of this Declaration
through the mobilization, inter alia, of financial
cooperation and technical assistance. Ways and
means of ensuring participation of indigenous
peoples on issues affecting them shall be
established.
Article 42
The United Nations, its bodies, including the
Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues, and
specialized agencies, including at the country
level, and States shall promote respect for and
full application of the provisions of this Declara-
tion and follow up the effectiveness of this Dec-
laration.
27
--- Page 30 ---
Article 43
The rights recognized herein constitute the
minimum standards for the survival, dignity and
well-being of the indigenous peoples of the
world.
Article 44
All the rights and freedoms recognized herein
are equally guaranteed to male and female
indigenous individuals.
Article 45
Nothing in this Declaration may be construed
as diminishing or extinguishing the rights indig-
enous peoples have now or may acquire in the
future.
Article 46
1. Nothing in this Declaration may be interpret-
ed as implying for any State, people, group or
person any right to engage in any activity or to
perform any act contrary to the Charter of the
United Nations or construed as authorizing or
encouraging any action which would dismem-
28
--- Page 31 ---
ber or impair, totally or in part, the territorial in-
tegrity or political unity of sovereign and inde-
pendent States.
2. In the exercise of the rights enunciated in the
present Declaration, human rights and funda-
mental freedoms of all shall be respected. The
exercise of the rights set forth in this Declara-
tion shall be subject only to such limitations as
are determined by law and in accordance with
international human rights obligations. Any
such limitations shall be non-discriminatory
and strictly necessary solely for the purpose of
securing due recognition and respect for the
rights and freedoms of others and for meeting
the just and most compelling requirements of a
democratic society.
3. The provisions set forth in this Declaration shall
be interpreted in accordance with the princi-
ples of justice, democracy, respect for human
rights, equality, non-discrimination, good gov-
ernance and good faith.
29
--- Page 32 ---
Designed by the Graphic Design Unit, Department of Public Information, United Nations
===END===

===Positives and Negatives Highlights from Pocahontas.docx===
Positives and Negatives Highlights from Pocahontas
This is the first film where Disney depicts Native Americans. It shows the company’s progress towards a more inclusive approach in their media productions.  Nevertheless, the portrayal of Native Americans is deceitful and the story in which the movie is based is heavily distorted.
Pocahontas, the protagonist, is adventurous, wise, and future leader of her people. She does not nicely fit the usual stereotypical images that Disney depicts of women. However, she was not an adult woman who defended the love of her life by putting her own life in danger.
Pocahontas could be used as a teaching tool for teachers. The movie can initiate dialogs and conversations between educators and students about the real story of Native American. Nonetheless, if such movie is to be taken into classrooms, an anti-bias perspective that differs from what is presented in the movie should be acknowledged by teachers.
The movie endorses the idea of the good/bad Indian. It also underscores the notion of Native Americans as “savages”. Additionally, the happy and joyful ending of the film twist the history of killings and oppression of Native Americans.
At certain points, the movie makes Native Americans and English settlers equal offenders when in reality the aggressors were the English colonists.
Pocahontas image highlights American standard norms of beauty. According to Dr. Cornel Pewewardy, Pocahontas disnified image is entirely the product of Western colonialism. He goes further and argues that the Indian princess stereotype is rooted in the legend of Pocahontas and is typically expressed through characters who are maidenly, demure and deeply committed to some White man.

===END===

===Reel Injun Questions.doc.docx===
Mi’kmaw Studies 11:  After watching “Reel Injun”,   Fully Respond to the questions below:  

 What are the consequences of distorted representations of Native people with regard to their identity, self-esteem and social and cultural development? One hundred years of 	cinema have shaped the folkloric images of Native Americans to the point that some people believe that Indians still live in teepees. But what is an “Injun” in 2011?
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

What were the main reasons for Native people being so widely represented in the movies? Some say that cinema was created to film First Nations people; on what basis can we support such a statement? Why would American culture treat Indians as myths or dinosaurs? In the movies, all Native people are supreme horsemen, at one with their horses, but most of them can’t ride in real life.   How was such a myth created?

________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Do you think that the kids in the summer camp sequence in Reel Injun only encountered Native people in Hollywood movies? According to Hollywood’s criteria, what does it take to be a good or noble Indian?
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

By developing the Tonto speech, did Hollywood harm the existing Native languages spoken by US tribes?   If so, how?
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

When John Wayne shoots a dead Indian that was dug up from a burial ground in the eyes to make sure he will not be going to the spirit world, what kind of message is Hollywood sending? What about the use of Native languages in the movies: Is it desirable in order to improve the pride and self-esteem of First Nations people? 
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Director Neil Diamond mentioned that he found the answers he was looking for in the North. What exactly was the object of his quest? On what basis can we say that Atanarjuat is the “most Native” movie ever made? 
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

===END===

===The Real Story of Pocahontas.docx===
The Real Story of Pocahontas
(http://www.samsloan.com/pocahon.htm)
The story of Pocahontas has been told many times but, nevertheless, it bears retelling here because, as usual, the well known and often repeated version does not describe what actually happened. 
According to Captain John Smith, Pocahontas did in fact save his life by jumping in the way while his head was on the execution block about to be pounded into mush on the orders of her father, Chief Powhatan. Everyone agrees that Chief Powhatan had the right idea, and if Pocahontas had not jumped in the way, the Indians would not have been decimated so quickly later on. Of this, there is no dispute. The question is: What exactly was reward of Pocahontas for this? 
The official version is that thereafter she got married to "Gentleman John Rolfe" and then sailed off to England where she was well received by the British nobility. It is presumed that she had fallen in love with the Englishman and had voluntarily gone off to live with him happily ever after. 
However, the original source documents tell us instead, that upon reaching the age of 18, Pocahontas was captured and kidnapped by Captain Sir Samuel Agrall on or about April 13, 1613. The reason given for this was that they suspected that her father, Chief Powhatan, had stolen some arms and ammunition from them. They intended to hold Pocahontas as a hostage for the return of these arms. Presumably, what happened to her next was what might easily have happen to any young woman in her situation. Then, about one week later, her father, Powhatan, approached the colonists, asking them for the return of his daughter. He was told that they had their own plans for her and had no intention of giving her back. Powhatan apparently accepted the fait accompli and went back to his Indian village, whereas Pocahontas was taken to Jamestown and was delivered to Governor Gates. 
Three months later, Powhatan offered five hundred bushels of corn for the return of his daughter. He never offered to return the arms and ammunition which they believed that he had stolen, however. This offer of corn was refused. Later, Governor Gates returned to England but, before doing so, handed Pocahontas over to his successor, Governor Dale. 
John Rolfe (1585-1622) was a man whose wife had accompanied him to America but the wife had died shortly after their arrival in 1610. On the way over, they had been ship wrecked in Bermuda. A daughter had been born there, whom they named Bermuda, but the child had died within a few months. With no living wife, John Rolfe somehow arranged to become the husband of Pocahontas. The marriage took place on or about April 5, 1614, by which time Pocahontas had been held a prisoner for nearly one year. She became pregnant and her baby, Thomas Rolfe, was born in Virginia in 1615. She was converted to Christianity and given the name "Rebecca". She and the child were taken to England, where they arrived in 1615. Unfortunately, two years later, she suddenly became ill and died almost immediately of unknown causes in Gravesend, England. John Rolfe married yet again and returned to Virginia. He is believed to have been killed in a famous massacre by the Indians which took place on March 22, 1622. That massacre resulted in the death of 350 colonists, that being nearly half of the total white population at that time. 
It was not at all surprising that Pocahontas died so quickly. Rather, it was a surprise that she lived so long. Most of the Indians died of various white man's diseases immediately upon exposure to them. This, however, went both ways, with the white colonists often succumbing to Indian diseases. One of the rewards which the Europeans got as a result of colonizing America was the disease of syphilis which became a great epidemic in Europe shortly after the colonists got it from the Indians for the first time and brought it back to Europe with them. Pocahontas, of course, would have been better off minding her own business and allowing the head of Captain John Smith to be pounded into mush. She would probably have lived to a ripe old age as a happy, although unknown, Indian princess.

THE REAL POCAHONTAS

Who was Pocahontas?  What was her given name?
How did Smith and Pocahontas become friends?  Was Smith’s life really in danger?
What was Pocahontas’ role in relations between her people and the English colonists?  
What happened to Pocahontas in 1610?  
Explain why she was kidnapped and describe her captivity.
Who was John Rolfe?
How did Pocahontas get to England?
How did she die?
===END===

